
<<<PAGE 1>>>
U.S.-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission
2025 Report to Congress
Executive Summary and Recommendations

<<<PAGE 2>>>

<<<PAGE 3>>>
2025 
REPORT TO CONGRESS
Executive Summary and Recommendations 
One Hundred Nineteenth Congress 
First Session 
November 2025
Printed for the use of the 
U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Digital copies of the full 2025 Annual Report to Congress and this 
Executive Summary are available online at: www.USCC.gov
U.S.-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission
<<<PAGE 4>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
Sarah M. Anderson
Graham E. Ayres
Daniel Blaugher
Rachael Burton
Jameson Cunningham
Joseph Federici
Benton Gordon
Kathleen Hawk
Charles Horne
Ngor Luong
Zoe Merewether
Nicole Morgret
Jack Neubauer
Jonathan Roberts
Lyndi Tsering
Evan J. Ulman
Cindy Zheng
Hal Brands
Aaron Friedberg
Hon. Carte P. Goodwin
Joshua Hodges
Michael Kuiken
Leland R. Miller
Livia Shmavonian
Cliff Sims
Chris Slevin
Hon. Jonathan N. Stivers 
U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS
Senior Operations Specialist
Policy Analyst, Economics and Trade
Policy Analyst, Economics and Trade
Research Manager and Senior Policy Analyst, Security and Foreign Affairs
Director, Congressional Affairs and Communications
Senior Policy Analyst, Security and Foreign Affairs
Research Assistant, Economics and Trade
Director, Security and Foreign Affairs
Director, Economics and Trade
Senior Policy Analyst, Economics and Trade
Policy Analyst, Economics and Trade
Policy Analyst, Security and Foreign Affairs
Policy Analyst, Security and Foreign Affairs
Congressional Liaison
Policy Fellow, Security and Foreign Affairs
Administrative Assistant
Policy Analyst, Security and Foreign Affairs
The Commission, a legislative branch entity, was created on October 30, 2000 by the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act of 2001, Pub. L. 
No. 106–398 (codified at 22 U.S.C. § 7002), as amended by: The Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2002, Pub. L. No. 107–67 (Nov. 12, 2001); 
The Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003, Pub. L. No. 108–7 (Feb. 20, 2003); The Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2006, Pub. L. No. 109–108 (Nov. 22, 2005); The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, Pub. L. No. 110–161 (Dec. 26, 2007); The Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, Pub. L. No. 113–291 (Dec. 19, 2014); and Pub. L. No. 117–286 (Dec. 27, 2022). The Commission’s 
full charter and statutory mandate are available online at: www.USCC.gov/charter.
Cover photo credit: U.S. Space Force is responsible for maintaining the Global Positioning System, U.S. Space Force graphic; official Made in China 2025 logo, PRC government; Putin, Xi, 
and Kim before a military parade in Tiananmen Square on September 3, 2025, Getty Images; scam call to cell phone, Shutterstock.
Michael Castellano 
Christopher P. Fioravante
Reva Price
 Hon. Randall Schriver
Executive Director 
Deputy Executive Director
Chair
Vice Chair
2025 COMMISSION STAFF
<<<PAGE 5>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TRANSMITTAL LETTER
INTRODUCTION
THE COMMISSION’S KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Part I: The Year in Review
Chapter 1: U.S.-China Economic and Trade Relations
Chapter 2: U.S.-China Security and Foreign Affairs 
Part II: Efforts to Remake the World Order
Chapter 3: Axis of Autocracy: China’s Revisionist Ambitions with Russia, Iran, and North Korea
Chapter 4: Crossroads of Competition: China and Southeast Asia
Chapter 5: Small Islands, Big Stakes: China’s Playbook in the Pacific Islands
Part III: Competition in Contested Frontiers
Chapter 6: Interlocking Innovation Flywheels: China’s Manufacturing and Innovation Engine
Chapter 7: The Final Frontier: China’s Ambitions to Dominate Space
Part IV: Exposure to China’s Economic Distortions and Coercion
Chapter 8: China Shock 2.0 
Chapter 9: Chained to China: Beijing’s Weaponization of Supply Chains
Chapter 10: Power Surge: China’s Electrification Drive and Push for Global Energy Dominance
Part V: Taiwan and Hong Kong
Chapter 11: Taiwan
Chapter 12: Hong Kong
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
6
8
12
16
16
16
18
20
20
22
25
28
28
30
33
33
36
39
42
42
44
46
<<<PAGE 6>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
6
November 18, 2025
The Honorable Charles E. Grassley 
President Pro Tempore of the U.S. Senate, Washington, DC 20510
The Honorable Mike Johnson 
Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC 20510
Dear Senator Grassley and Speaker Johnson:
On behalf of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, we are pleased 
to transmit the Commission’s 2025 Annual Report to Congress. This Report responds to our 
mandate “to monitor, investigate, and report to Congress on the national security implications 
of the bilateral trade and economic relationship between the United States and the People’s 
Republic of China.” The Com mission reached a broad and bipartisan consensus on the contents 
of this Report, with all 12 members voting unanimously to approve and submit it to Congress.
In accordance with our mandate, this Report, which is current as of October 10, 2025, includes 
the results and recommendations of our hearings, research, and review of the areas identified 
by Congress in our mandate, as defined in Public Law No. 106–398 (October 30, 2000) and 
amended by Public Laws No. 107–67 (November 12, 2001), No. 108–7 (February 20, 2003), 
109–108 (November 22, 2005), No. 110–161 (December 26, 2007), No. 113–291 (December 19, 
2014), and No. 117-286 (December 27, 2022). The Commission’s charter, which includes the 
11 directed research areas of our mandate, is included as Appendix I of the Report. 
The Commission conducted six public hearings, taking testimony from 50 expert witnesses 
from government, the private sector, academia, think tanks, research institutions, and other 
backgrounds. For each of these hearings, the Commission produced a transcript (posted on 
our website at www.USCC.gov). This year’s hearings included:
• Made in China 2025 – Who is Winning? 
• An Axis of Autocracy? China’s Relations with Russia, Iran, and North Korea 
• Crossroads of Competition: China in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands 
• The Rocket’s Red Glare: China’s Ambitions to Dominate Space 
• China’s Domestic Energy Challenges and Its Growing Influence over International 
Energy Markets 
• Dominance by Design: China Shock 2.0 and the Supply Chain Chokepoints 
Eroding U.S. Security 
U.S.-China EConomiC and SECUrity rEviEw CommiSSion

<<<PAGE 7>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7
The Commission received a number of briefings, both unclassified and classified, by executive 
branch agencies, the U.S. military, the Intelligence Community, foreign government officials, 
and U.S. and foreign nongovernmental experts on a range of topics within the Commission’s 
mandate. The Commission includes key insights gained through these briefings either in its 
unclassified Annual Report or, as appropriate, in a classified annex to that Report.
The Commission conducted official fact-finding travel this year to the Philippines, Indonesia, 
Vietnam, and Cambodia to hear and discuss perspectives on China’s economic, foreign policy, 
and security activities in the region, U.S.-China relations, and trans-Pacific cooperation. In 
these visits, the Commission delegation met with U.S. diplomats, foreign government officials, 
business representatives, academics, journalists, and other experts. The Commission also 
conducted official fact-finding travel to U.S. technology companies and universities in southern 
California to enhance its understanding of quantum technologies and better evaluate strategic 
competition with China in this important sector. Throughout the year, the Commission relied 
substantially on the work of our excellent professional staff and outside contracted research 
(see Appendix IV) in accordance with our mandate (see Appendix I).
The Report includes 28 recommendations for congressional consideration. The Commissioners 
agreed that ten of these recommendations, which appear on page 12, are the most important 
for congressional action. The complete list of recommendations appears on page 46 at the 
conclusion of the Executive Summary.
We offer this Report to Congress in the hope that it will be useful in helping guide policies to 
better address the economic and national security implications of the U.S.-China relationship, 
while advancing American interests and values. Thank you for the opportunity to serve. 
We look forward to continuing to work with Members of Congress in the upcoming year 
to address issues of concern in the U.S.-China relationship.
Sincerely,
Reva Price 
Chair
Hon. Randall Schriver
Vice Chair

<<<PAGE 8>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
8
INTRODUCTION
In 2025, Beijing’s diplomats traversed the world 
claiming that China—and not the United States—is the more 
responsible steward of international order and the global 
economy. Yet China’s actions show that this rhetoric is far 
from the reality. Despite facing serious economic strains, 
over the past year Chinese leaders have continued to funnel 
state resources into high-tech manufacturing, expand 
evasive and coercive economic tools, export their problems 
abroad by flooding global markets with state-subsidized 
excess supply that distorts global prices and weakens 
competitors, and weaponize their leverage over supply 
chain chokepoints. Beijing has intensified its destabilizing 
gray zone activities, advanced its preparations for potential 
military conflict, and deepened its coordination with malign 
actors like Russia and Iran. Beijing has also continued 
its concerted efforts to establish regional economic and 
military hegemony in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands 
as stepping stones for projecting power toward its long-
term goal of displacing the United States as the dominant 
power in the Indo-Pacific and, eventually, the world.
Industrial Policy and Imbalances 
Lead to Two-Speed Economy 
In the concluding year of its Made in China 2025 industrial 
plan, China now possesses a hyper-charged, state-directed 
manufacturing base without historic parallel. Chinese 
firms count numerous successes in meeting ambitious 
market share and localization goals under policies like 
Made in China 2025. Yet the economy’s greatest gains are 
not in exports or value-added growth but rather in the 
cumulative and overlapping capabilities of its industrial 
capacity built through years of state support and other 
distortive practices. China is now positioned to develop and 
scale new technologies and attain first-mover advantage 
in many industries of the future. At the same time, China’s 
broader economy continues to experience malaise and 
structural weakness due to years of broken promises 
to rebalance. China’s desire to move up the value chain, 
reduce its dependence on foreign technology, and make 
the world more dependent on its output means it will 
continue massive, distortionary policy support for strategic 
and favored sectors, even if that means slower growth 
elsewhere in its economy. This dual-speed trajectory of 
industrial overcapacity amid consumer stagnation poses 
a direct risk to U.S. competitiveness and the resilience 
of global markets.
China Shock 2.0
In 2025, China is on track to run the greatest trade 
surplus with the world, exceeding its own historically 
unprecedented $992 billion surplus in 2024. While China 
professes to be a responsible steward of the global economy, 
in practice it has continued to flout international trade 
rules even as it is the biggest beneficiary of those rules. 
Its heavily state-distorted economic model has resulted in 
systemic dumping and massive excess supply, which is now 
flooding emerging markets—causing major job losses and 
hurting the manufacturing sectors of developing economies 
all over the world. Thus far, Southeast Asia has been 
ground zero for this “second China Shock.” China’s surging 
exports of low-cost products like textiles and electronics to 
Southeast Asia have already lead to hundreds of thousands 
of job losses in Indonesia and contributed to thousands of 
factory closures in Thailand. These distortions are rippling 
outward, driving price collapses, political instability, and 
new dependencies across Africa, Latin America, and Eastern 
Europe. Without concerted efforts to counter China’s unfair 
trade practices, China’s economic model will continue to 
cause economic harm to countries around the world for 
years to come. Left unchecked, this wave of predatory 
overcapacity threatens to hollow out not only developing 
economies but also key segments of U.S. and allied 
manufacturing—eroding the industrial base essential 
to national security.
<<<PAGE 9>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9
Leveraging Supply Chain Chokepoints 
and Security Vulnerabilities 
For at least the past five years, China has deliberately 
pursued a strategy of expanding production and deepening 
global dependence on Chinese exports while reducing its 
own reliance on imports. This strategy builds on decades 
of industrial policy that led to a concentration of supply 
chains in China and undercut competitors by flooding 
global markets with subsidized, underpriced goods. 
It parallels a trend of China sharpening its economic 
statecraft toolkit and escalating economic coercion against 
foreign countries, firms, and individuals. In 2025, these 
trends converged as China leveraged its monopoly over 
the processing of rare earth elements in trade negotiations 
with the United States, imposing export restrictions on 
critical minerals and magnets essential to a range of 
manufacturing industries and defense technologies. While 
Beijing has recently relaxed some of these restrictions, it is 
also tightening its enforcement capabilities for the future 
—signaling its readiness to weaponize these chokepoints 
again when politically advantageous. 
Beijing’s successful use of economic coercion in bilateral 
trade negotiations highlights an open question for the future 
of U.S.-China relations: does the United States continue 
to have escalation dominance in imposing economic 
restrictions on China? Growing evidence suggests that 
advantage may be eroding. Critical minerals are only 
one example of China’s leverage over essential supply 
chains, and the consequences of China weaponizing other 
chokepoints could be devastating. Chinese producers wield 
significant control over active pharmaceutical ingredients 
and key energy infrastructure equipment, and China is 
investing heavily to gain such leverage over foundational 
semiconductors. If China cut off access to these items, 
it could deprive Americans of lifesaving medicines and 
cause significant harm to the U.S. economy. 
The prevalence of Chinese components—especially 
internet-connected devices with remote access 
capabilities—in U.S. critical infrastructure provide Beijing 
with yet another disturbing source of leverage over the 
United States. Chinese state-sponsored cyber actors such 
as Volt Typhoon pre-position assets inside of U.S. critical 
infrastructure, potentially enabling Beijing to disrupt U.S. 
power, communications, water, banking, transportation, 
and other vital systems in the event of a crisis or conflict. 
These intrusions amount to an operational rehearsal 
for coercion below the threshold of war. 
Undermining Global Stability, 
Security, and Prosperity
Over the past year, China’s external propaganda has 
accused the United States of undermining international 
order and attempted to cast Beijing as a force for global 
stability. In fact, however, China has only intensified its 
destabilizing gray zone activities in the Indo-Pacific and 
around the world. China’s reckless maneuvers targeting 
the Philippines in the South China Sea—including one 
incident that ironically led to a collision of two Chinese 
vessels in August 2025—have come alarmingly close 
to killing a Filipino mariner and potentially triggering 
the U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty. China has 
also globalized its gray zone operations—extending its 
coercive tactics beyond the first island chain by sabotaging 
undersea cables, conducting unannounced live-fire military 
exercises in the Tasman Sea, and launching cyberattacks 
targeting telecommunications networks across dozens of 
countries. These actions are designed not only to intimidate 
neighbors but also to test allied resolve, normalize Chinese 
coercion, and fragment collective responses. Besides its 
own malicious activities, Beijing continues to fuel violent 
conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East by providing 
dual-use technologies to Russia and Iran. Beijing’s support 
enables Moscow and Tehran to prolong wars of aggression 
while refining methods of sanctions evasion and battlefield 
coordination with direct application to a future Taiwan 
contingency. In all of these cases, China attempts to cloak its 
actions beneath a thin veneer of plausible deniability or legal 
justification, enabling Beijing to present itself a source of 
stability even as it undermines the very international order 
it claims to uphold. 
Advancing Preparations 
for a Potential Conflict
China has continued to rapidly advance its capabilities 
to launch a successful invasion of Taiwan. The People’s 
Liberation Army’s (PLA) intensifying military activities 
near Taiwan—along with its introduction of new platforms 
designed to support an amphibious attack—have made 
it so that the PLA could pivot from a routine exercise 
<<<PAGE 10>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
10
to an actual blockade or invasion with almost no advance 
warning. Moreover, a troubling divergence has emerged 
between China’s English-language and Chinese-language 
propaganda about Taiwan—a split that suggests Beijing 
may be taking initial steps to prepare its people for the 
possibility of war. Whereas Chinese statements aimed 
at international audiences downplay the possibility of an 
invasion, China’s domestic propaganda has stated that 
Taiwan’s “provocations” could justify military action in 
the near future. While there is no indication that China is 
planning an imminent invasion—and Beijing still hopes to 
pressure Taiwan to surrender without a fight—the United 
States and its allies and partners can no longer assume 
that a Taiwan contingency is a distant possibility for which 
they would have ample time to prepare.
Beyond its specific efforts to enhance capabilities for 
a Taiwan contingency, Beijing has continued to rapidly 
modernize its military forces across all domains with the 
goal of being able to fight and defeat “strong enemies” 
like the United States. China views space as a crucial 
warfighting domain, and the PLA is rapidly expanding 
space and counterspace capabilities that could be used to 
target U.S. forces in the Indo-Pacific and incapacitate U.S. 
space-based assets. Beijing’s investment in counterspace 
systems—including direct-ascent anti-satellite weapons 
and co-orbital interference platforms—illustrates its 
strategy of blinding and disorienting U.S. forces in the 
opening phase of a conflict. China also continues to pour 
significant resources into over-the-horizon technologies 
such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing 
that have dual-use purposes and could accelerate China’s 
military and intelligence capabilities.
In addition to modernizing its own capabilities, China’s 
deepening cooperation with Russia, Iran, and North 
Korea has enabled these pariah economies to withstand 
multilateral economic restrictions, undermining U.S. 
statecraft and providing China with a live testbed for 
sanctions evasion and wartime logistics. These countries 
cooperate in efforts to supplant the existing world 
order with one more conducive to their authoritarian, 
destabilizing regimes. The mutual support between 
these countries enables each to act more aggressively, 
providing Beijing with a network of partners capable of 
supporting it in a military crisis. Even if they chose not 
to intervene directly, these countries could assist Beijing 
through military technology transfers, diversionary regional 
pressures, or economic and energy lifelines, complicating 
U.S. and allied crisis response planning and stretching 
deterrence across multiple theaters.
Seeking Hegemony 
in the Indo-Pacific 
While China seeks to undermine existing international 
institutions, norms, and U.S. global leadership, it has also 
been working to ensure its own authoritarian hegemony 
in the Indo-Pacific region. After decades of systematically 
expanding its economic influence in Southeast Asia and 
the Pacific Islands, Beijing is now wielding its economic 
leverage to secure greater military access and security 
influence. For years, Beijing has pursued access to bases 
and dual-use facilities in the region. Now, these efforts 
are converging into an integrated network of logistics 
hubs, ports, and surveillance outposts designed to support 
power projection and sustain operations far from China’s 
shores. Beijing has also used regional partnerships with 
internal security forces throughout Southeast Asia and 
the Pacific Islands to gain the allegiance of local leaders 
by helping them maintain power through authoritarian 
policing practices and high-tech surveillance. Beijing’s 
“inside-out” approach to expanding its security influence 
aims first to gain a foothold within the internal security 
apparatuses—which it can then use as a source of leverage 
to shape their external security behavior. Most recently, 
China has exploited the growing crisis of scam centers 
operated by Chinese crime syndicates—many of which 
spread throughout Southeast Asia with, at a minimum, 
implicit backing from elements of the Chinese government—
as a pretext to further expand the presence of its internal 
security forces in the region. This blurring of criminal, 
commercial, and security activities allows Beijing to embed 
influence under the guise of law enforcement cooperation, 
normalizing its extraterritorial reach.
Beijing’s ambitions to convert its economic power into 
greater security influence do not stop in the Indo-Pacific. 
Rather, Beijing has explicitly referred to regions like 
Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands as “pilot zones” for 
refining strategies it can use to expand its influence on 
a global scale. These pilot zones serve as laboratories for 
authoritarian governance exports, technology standards, 
and coercive finance practices Beijing is already applying 
<<<PAGE 11>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
11
in Africa, Latin America, and Central Asia. By perfecting 
its control model close to home, China is building the 
architecture for global authoritarian resilience.
Looking Ahead: 
The Global China Challenge
Countering China’s aggression is now a truly global 
challenge. Beijing’s increasing military power projection 
and technological capabilities—as well as its deepening 
coordination with Russia, Iran, and North Korea—demand 
that the United States work closely with allies and partners 
to address interconnected, cross-regional security threats 
in multiple geographic areas. Enforcing export controls and 
securing supply chains by preventing transshipment and 
reducing exposure to Chinese inputs are likewise global 
challenges that will require close coordination with allies 
and partners in every region of the world. Beijing’s recent 
actions demonstrate that a China-dominated world order 
would be less stable, less secure, less prosperous, and 
less free. Such an order would be defined by weaponized 
interdependence, state surveillance, and coercive control 
over global norms. It will be incumbent upon the United 
States to counter Beijing’s bid for hegemony with a positive 
vision for the future that promotes prosperity, security, 
and freedom at home and around the world. Meeting this 
challenge will require not only defensive measures but 
also a proactive strategy to rebuild U.S. industrial strength, 
shape international rules, and lead coalitions that can 
compete with China’s scale and ambition. 
<<<PAGE 12>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
12
THE COMMISSION’S 2025 
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
The Commission highlights 10 of its 28 recommendations to Congress below. 
The complete list of recommendations appears on page 46.
The Commission recommends:
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
I. Congress consider legislation establishing a consolidated 
economic statecraft entity to address the evolving national 
security challenges posed by China’s systematic and persistent 
evasion of U.S. export controls and sanctions. 
This new unified economic statecraft entity, at a minimum, 
should include: the Bureau of Industry and Security (U.S. 
Department of Commerce), the Office of Foreign Assets Control 
(U.S. Department of the Treasury), the Bureau of International 
Security and Nonproliferation’s Office of Export Control 
Cooperation (U.S. Department of State), the Defense Technology 
Security Administration (U.S. Department of Defense), and other 
appropriate organizations across the executive branch.
This entity should be:
▶ Integrated into the Intelligence Community with enhanced 
access to real-time intelligence on evasion networks and real-
time intelligence-sharing capabilities with industry to identify 
emerging evasion tactics;
▶ Equipped with enforcement authorities comparable to those 
wielded by the Treasury Department in the financial sanctions 
sphere, including law enforcement authorities to pursue 
aggressive enforcement against violators; 
▶ Structured as a direct report to a single cabinet official or 
the President of the United States so as to ensure strategic 
coordination across government, unencumbered by the 
interagency processes; and
▶ Equipped with resources for technology development, 
analysis, and international coordination and authority to 
implement robust verification systems and supply chain 
tracking technologies. 
This recommendation addresses the critical gap between export 
controls and sanctions as written and their actual enforcement, 
recognizing that China and Russia continue to successfully 
circumvent existing safeguards while U.S. technological 
advantages erode. Modernizing export controls and sanctions 
infrastructure represents an essential evolution of U.S. economic 
statecraft for the strategic competition era.
The United States urgently requires modernization of its export 
controls and sanctions regime to counter China’s systematic and 
persistent circumvention tactics. The current fragmented approach 
across multiple agencies dilutes accountability and prioritization. 
Consolidating these authorities under a single entity would create 
clear ownership, institutional incentives to prioritize enforcement, 
and concentrated resources dedicated to countering circumvention. 
Today’s dispersed structure does not enable such focused effort. The 
Commission notes that Congress passed the Foreign Investment Risk 
Review Modernization Act of 2018 (FIRRMA), which strengthened 
the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. Since 
the passage of FIRRMA and the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 
(ECRA), economic statecraft has evolved dramatically, revealing 
significant gaps in enforcement of export controls and sanctions. The 
Commission defers to congressional committees regarding the optimal 
organizational placement of this consolidated authority, recognizing 
that the primary objective is ensuring America’s key offensive tools 
of economic statecraft are modernized, adequately resourced, and 
strategically coordinated to address 21st-century threats.
II. See the Commission’s classified recommendation annex 
for a recommendation and discussion relating to U.S.-China 
advanced technology competition. 
III. Congress build U.S. pharmaceutical supply chain resilience 
by increasing visibility into the supply chain, as well as tracking 
and reducing U.S. direct and indirect dependence on Chinese 
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and related key starting 
materials (KSMs), through legislation that:
▶ Amends section 3112(e) of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, 
and Economic Security (CARES) Act to expand the authority 
of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require drug 
manufacturers to report volume and ultimate origin of APIs and 
KSMs used in drugs consumed in the United States, including 
sourcing of Chinese content through third countries. Based on 
this information, the FDA should: 
▶ Produce a confidential report analyzing U.S. vulnerabilities 
to Chinese APIs and KSMs. The report should identify the 
proportion of U.S. drug consumption that is dependent on 
<<<PAGE 13>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
13
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
foreign APIs and KSMs, determine vulnerabilities, and 
track trends over time, including anonymized aggregates 
of increases or decreases in U.S. dependency on China.
▶ Directs the FDA to identify regulatory authorities and 
deficiencies to support or incentivize the use of APIs and 
KSMs from sources with no China origin. 
▶ Directs the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS) to explore the use of procurement and reimbursement 
authorities to protect the U.S. and allies’ API and KSM 
markets, which could include price floor commitments in 
support of U.S. industry to protect investments against 
nonmarket practices and price manipulation.
IV. Congress establish as a strategic national objective that the 
United States build a resilient bioeconomy industrial base and 
unlock biology as a general-purpose technology before the end of 
the decade and support this objective through the following actions:
▶ Resource the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) to establish a Bio-Measurement Laboratory (BML). 
The BML should develop, support, and promulgate standards 
for biological measurements, materials, and models; advance 
measurement science and tools for biotechnology; and ensure 
U.S. standards are adopted globally as the foundation of the 
21st-century bioeconomy.
▶ Expand the U.S. Department of Energy’s Loan Programs 
Office’s (LPO) lending authority and capacity to include 
biotechnology projects. Recognizing that the biotechnology 
sector (outside of pharmaceuticals) faces a financing shortage 
that threatens U.S. competitiveness, Congress should 
authorize the LPO to provide loan guarantees and direct 
loans for biotechnology manufacturing, infrastructure, and 
commercialization projects. All of these efforts should focus 
on scaling, not on pilot projects. This expansion should include:
▶ Explicit authority for the LPO to finance biotechnology 
projects under its other lending programs;
▶ Appropriations to cover the upfront costs of making 
biotechnology loans; and 
▶ Faster application timelines and reduced bureaucratic 
requirements for biotechnology companies to obtain loans.
▶ Strengthen and expand the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s 
BioPreferred program to establish the Federal Government 
as an anchor customer for the bioeconomy by:
▶ Establishing binding multi-year procurement 
commitments for biobased products across federal agencies, 
with priority for replacing defense and infrastructure 
materials currently sourced from countries of concern;
▶ Expanding BioPreferred program eligibility to include 
state, local, and tribal governments as well as universities, 
enabling broader adoption of biobased products;
▶ Increasing appropriations for the Biorefinery, Renewable 
Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance 
Program (Section 9003) loan guarantees; and
▶ Directing federal agencies to set quantified targets for 
biobased product adoption in their supply chains and report 
annually on progress toward reducing strategic dependencies.
The United States currently faces a future in which it depends 
on China for access to the most cutting-edge biotechnology 
innovations, sophisticated biomanufacturing equipment, and 
advanced biomaterials. The coordinated investments in standards 
development, measurement science, and deployment financing 
outlined above are essential to ensure the United States leads in 
the transformation of biology into a general-purpose technology 
capable of producing up to 60 percent of physical goods in the 
global economy by mid-century while maintaining national security, 
supply chain resilience, and economic competitiveness against 
strategic competitors.
V. To protect the U.S. power grid from the economic and cybersecurity 
threats posed by Chinese-made components, Congress should:
▶ Prohibit the import of energy storage systems with remote 
monitoring capabilities that are manufactured by or made with 
technology licensed from Chinese entities.
▶ Allocate additional funds to the U.S. Department of Energy 
for grid expansion, modernization, and cybersecurity grant 
and loan programs and prohibit the use of those grants and 
loans to purchase goods or services or license technology from 
entities that pose a cybersecurity risk to the U.S. power grid 
to be designated by the Secretary of Energy, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Homeland Security, 
the Director of the National Security Agency, and the heads 
of other federal departments and agencies, as the Secretary 
determines appropriate.
▶ Direct the Department of Energy and Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission to strengthen supply chain risk 
management requirements for interstate electric transmission 
utilities by: 
▶ Requiring utilities to identify all Chinese-origin 
components within their high- and medium-impact bulk 
electric system and protected cyber assets; 
▶ Developing requirements to prohibit the installation of or 
mitigate the cybersecurity risk posed by those components; 
▶ Requiring that future procurement of such cyber assets 
come with full software, firmware, and hardware bills 
of materials; 
▶ Mandating that interstate transmission utilities report on 
their use of Chinese-origin components to their distribution 
utility customers; and 
<<<PAGE 14>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
14
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
▶ Coordinating with the U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security and other relevant agencies to provide technical 
assistance to implement these requirements.
VI. Congress strengthen the U.S. Department of Commerce, 
Bureau of Industry and Security’s (BIS) ability to manage 
strategic competition with China in fast-moving technology 
sectors, such as leading-edge semiconductors used in artificial 
intelligence (AI) applications, and increase congressional 
oversight, including by: 
▶ Directing BIS to use existing authorities to require tracking 
technology for export-controlled advanced chips to detect 
and combat diversion to countries of concern; 
▶ Shifting the U.S. export control regime on advanced chips 
from a “sell” model to a “rent” model by mandating that 
any advanced chips above a certain threshold that are not 
designated as prohibited for export be accessible exclusively 
via the cloud. To do this, BIS shall create a license exception 
in the Export Administration Regulations for renting cloud 
access to export-controlled AI compute infrastructure with 
performance capabilities above a certain threshold to entities 
in countries of concern: 
▶ BIS shall determine the applicable compute threshold, 
with periodic adjustments as necessary to ensure the 
threshold adequately mitigates national security risks 
while keeping pace with technological developments and 
other trends; and
▶ BIS shall require licensees to implement know-your-
customer (KYC) identification programs and report suspicious 
activity proactively to the agency when entities domiciled 
within or controlled by countries of concern attempt to 
access the cloud infrastructure outside of approved licensing 
procedures or when approved entities use rented cloud 
infrastructure for suspected military or espionage purposes.
▶ Directing the Administration to establish a systemic, 
integrated intelligence unit embedded at BIS, including 
analysts from the Intelligence Community, to formally 
integrate technical, analytic, financial, and collection expertise 
to improve enforcement and to report to relevant committees 
of Congress outlining the additional resources, authorities, 
capabilities, and subject matter experts needed to anticipate 
and counter evasion strategies;
▶ Directing the agency to move all items subject to a 
“presumption of denial” license application review standard 
for export to China or a Chinese entity to a “policy of denial.” 
This would ensure the agency’s policy prioritizes national 
security in assessing export license applications for applicable 
items on the Commerce Control List or for technologies 
provided to companies on the Entity List; and
▶ Establishing a whistleblower incentive program for private 
citizens providing information on export control violations, similar 
to the program available to the U.S. Department of the Treasury 
under 31 U.S.C. § 5323.
The recommendation seeks to address important needs in enhancing 
BIS’s capacity to enforce export controls consistent with congressional 
intent in the Export Control Reform Act of 2018. It complements the 
Commission’s economic statecraft entity recommendation in Chapter 
3 for long-term strengthening of economic statecraft functions into 
a single entity while recognizing that implementation of such a 
recommendation to Congress is likely a multi-year process and BIS 
enforcement needs are urgent and ongoing.
VII. Congress establish a “Quantum First” by 2030 national goal 
with a focus on quantum computational advantage in three mission-
critical domains—cryptography, drug discovery, and materials 
science. To achieve this ambitious national goal, the Commission 
recommends Congress should take the following actions:
▶ Provide significant funding for U.S. quantum development, 
focused on scalable quantum computing modalities, secure 
communications, and post-quantum cryptography. To secure 
U.S. leadership, Congress should pair this funding with quantum 
workforce development initiatives, including expanded 
fellowships, talent exchange programs with allies, and dedicated 
curricula aligned with mission needs.
▶ Prioritize modernization of enabling infrastructure, including 
cryogenic laboratories, quantum engineering centers, and next-
generation fabrication and metrology facilities. These assets 
are essential to converting scientific discovery into deployable 
systems, and many current research environments remain 
under-resourced or technologically outdated.
▶ Establish a Quantum Software Engineering Institute (QSEI) 
focused on developing the software foundations for scalable, 
secure, and interoperable quantum computing. The QSEI 
should also coordinate an open source ecosystem to accelerate 
application development and build a trusted quantum software 
supply chain. Modeled on the National Artificial Intelligence 
Research Institutes and National Manufacturing Institutes, 
the QSEI would ensure that U.S. quantum hardware is matched 
by world-class software capabilities, enabling early operational 
advantage across science, industry, and defense.
Whoever leads in quantum (and artificial intelligence) will control the 
encryption of the digital economy; enable breakthroughs in materials, 
energy, and medicine; and gain asymmetric and likely persistent 
advantage in intelligence and targeting. It is imperative that the 
United States treat quantum not as a research silo but as a mission-
critical national capability—and act accordingly. 
<<<PAGE 15>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
15
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
While the United States retains world-leading research capabilities, 
China has mobilized state-scale investment and industrial 
coordination to dominate quantum systems and standards. For the 
purposes of this recommendation, the Commission presumes that 
China is actively racing to develop cryptographically relevant 
quantum computing capabilities and is likely concealing the 
location and status of its most advanced efforts. This is a domain 
where first-mover advantage could yield irreversible strategic 
consequences, particularly given the vulnerability of current 
global systems that rely on public key cryptography.
The Quantum First 2030 timeline is essential to ensure the 
United States achieves quantum leadership before any adversary 
can leverage these capabilities against American interests. 
Quantum technologies—spanning computing, sensing, and 
communication—will shape the future of strategic advantage.
VIII. To preserve and strengthen U.S. primacy in the critical space 
domain as China pursues sweeping advancements across military, 
commercial, and civil space sectors, Congress should:
▶ Increase or reallocate appropriations for the U.S. Space 
Force to levels necessary to achieve space control and 
establish space superiority against China’s rapidly expanding 
space and counterspace capabilities.
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Defense to enhance the 
U.S. Space Force’s capacity to conduct space wargaming and 
develop realistic modeling and simulation of potential threats 
from China, including training programs for space operators 
on warfighting tactics, techniques, and procedures necessary 
for space control.
▶ Conduct oversight hearings and other activities to ensure 
the United States maintains primacy in the space domain by 
identifying investments in cutting-edge space technologies 
and assessing China’s space capabilities and threats to U.S. 
space industrial base capacity.
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Commerce, in coordination 
with the U.S. Departments of Defense, State, and the Treasury, 
to produce an unclassified report to Congress within 180 days 
identifying China’s commercial space capabilities, the dual-use 
nature of Chinese space technologies, and China’s commercial 
space industry’s support to the People’s Liberation Army.
▶ Direct the U.S. National Space Council to increase 
international outreach on space launch services and ensure 
the United States remains the partner of choice for both 
government and commercial space launch.
▶ Express support for the strategic importance of U.S. 
leadership in civil space exploration and direct relevant agencies 
to assess the progress of the Artemis Accords, evaluate risks 
China poses to U.S. civil space priorities, including National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) programs, and 
ensure program delays do not undermine U.S. credibility in 
establishing global norms for lunar and Martian exploration.
IX. Congress direct the President to create an interagency task 
force to combat scam centers, which are primarily operated 
by Chinese criminal networks in Southeast Asia and defraud 
Americans of billions of dollars annually. The task force should:
▶ Work with the Intelligence Community to:
▶ Assess the extent to which China has obtained 
Americans’ sensitive personal data stored on computers 
and phones confiscated in raids on scam centers and 
evaluate how Beijing could use that data; and 
▶ Prepare a report in both classified and, if possible, 
unclassified form detailing the extent to which the Chinese 
government has ties to the individuals and criminal 
enterprises that run scam centers.
▶ Foster cooperation with U.S. technology companies and 
financial intermediaries to detect and stop scams, particularly 
cryptocurrency investment fraud;
▶ Create training programs for U.S. law enforcement on 
sophisticated new cyber scams and implement a national 
public awareness campaign;
▶ Enhance law enforcement cooperation and intelligence 
sharing with allies and partners to dismantle scam centers, 
recover stolen assets, and protect victims’ personal data; and
▶ Implement sanctions on individuals, corporations, and foreign 
government officials that perpetrate and enable online scams.
X. Congress direct the U.S. Department of Defense, in coordination 
with the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM), to produce 
a report in both classified and unclassified form assessing its 
compliance with the legal requirement established by Congress 
in the Taiwan Relations Act “to maintain the capacity of the United 
States to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion that 
would jeopardize the security, or the social or economic system, 
of the people on Taiwan.” The report should include:
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to respond to a 
Taiwan contingency; 
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to respond to other forms of 
coercion being used by China to threaten the security of Taiwan 
(e.g., China’s gray zone tactics in and around Taiwan); and
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to comply with the Taiwan 
Relations Act in scenarios where the United States is also 
engaged in responding to aggression by Russia, Iran, or 
North Korea in other regions. 
In each case, the report should identify any gaps that currently exist 
or will exist based on likely trajectories of resources and capabilities.
<<<PAGE 16>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
16
China’s economic system is under 
serious strain. High debt levels and 
eroding fiscal capacity have con-
strained Chinese officials’ means 
to address the domestic slowdown 
without more serious structural 
reform, which remains unlikely 
for political reasons. The result is 
increasingly a two-speed economy, 
whereby broader economic growth 
remains under substantial pressure 
while priority areas for the Party 
such as advanced manufacturing 
continue to see plentiful policy 
support and access to capital. 
Domestic consumption remains 
tepid amid mounting concerns over 
stagnant wages, unemployment, 
high household debt, and a weak 
social safety net. Amid the deflation 
of the property bubble, manufac-
turing remains the government’s 
growth driver of choice, even as 
the measures China is taking to 
bolster this sector are having an 
increasingly adverse impact on its 
trading partners. Facing a glut of 
manufactured goods and weak 
domestic demand, Chinese factories 
are redirecting much of this excess 
supply abroad, part of a dynamic that 
is contributing to a “China Shock 2.0.” 
China faces additional challenges 
from new U.S. and other tariffs 
on Chinese exports, sparking it to 
engage in retaliatory measures while 
also exposing the interconnected 
nature of supply chains for critical 
technologies (see Figure 1). Rising 
economic tensions have collided 
with mounting concerns over China’s 
Year in Review
CHAPTER 1:
U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC 
AND TRADE RELATIONS
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, “USA Trade Online.”
FIGURE 1
U.S.-CHINA MONTHLY BILATERAL TRADE, JANUARY 2016–JULY 2025
$60 
$50 
$40 
$30 
$20 
$10
$0
JAN. 16 JAN. 17 JAN. 18 JAN. 19 JAN. 20 JAN. 21 JAN. 22 JAN. 23 JAN. 24 JAN. 25
JUL. 24 JUL. 25JUL. 23JUL. 22JUL. 21JUL. 20JUL. 19JUL. 18JUL. 17JUL. 16
USD BILLIONS
U.S. IMPORTS FROM CHINA
U.S. EXPORTS TO CHINA 
YEAR IN REVIEW
<<<PAGE 17>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
17
growing technological prowess. U.S. 
measures to limit China’s progress, 
such as bans on advanced semicon-
ductor exports, have been pulled 
into broader trade negotiations 
as bargaining chips. China has 
also employed its own sources of 
leverage, targeting individual U.S. 
companies with punitive measures 
and ramping up restrictions on crit-
ical minerals exports. As economic 
relations between the United States 
and China have worsened, Chinese 
producers are looking for more 
receptive markets in third countries. 
China’s manufacturing sector is both 
globally dominant and increasingly a 
source of concern among its trading 
partners, even as Beijing shows 
little intention of changing course 
on its market-distorting industrial 
policies. Therein lies the dilemma: 
China’s self-portrayal as a responsible 
member of the international eco-
nomic system is directly at odds with 
its status as perhaps the world’s most 
structurally unbalanced economy.
• Despite over a decade of pledges 
to rebalance from export- and invest-
ment-led growth toward greater 
domestic consumption—claims 
repeated throughout 2025—China’s 
economy has deepened its reliance 
on export-oriented manufacturing 
in recent years. Especially as its 
property crisis deepens, China has 
doubled down on an economic model 
based on supply-side support to boost 
production, often resulting in far more 
products than domestic demand can 
absorb, with the intent of becoming the 
dominant global exporter of all types 
of manufactured goods and materials.
• China has made limited progress, at 
best, toward rebalancing its economy 
to promote domestic consumption as 
a greater driver of growth. Sluggish 
financial markets, falling property 
values, and weak wage growth are all 
significant headwinds, and the recent 
modest uptick in consumption indi-
cators is primarily due to temporary 
measures used to pull forward growth.
• If exports falter and efforts to redirect 
the economy toward greater domestic 
consumption remain politically 
non-viable, China has limited other 
sources of growth to propel its economy 
forward without backtracking on its 
progress to deflate the real estate 
bubble and control rising levels of debt.
• As we approach the 25th anniversary 
of China’s accession to the WTO, 
China remains a major beneficiary 
of the global rules-based trading 
system despite flouting the rules and 
maintaining an unbalanced, state-led 
economy fundamentally inconsistent 
with that system.
• While Chinese officials tout China’s 
openness to foreign investment, the 
government routinely takes measures 
adverse to the interests of foreign busi-
nesses. Multiple U.S. firms’ operations 
in China have come under threat as a 
point of leverage in trade negotiations.
• U.S.-China technology competition 
shapes significant aspects of the 
U.S.-China economic and security 
relationship, with global impacts mag-
nified in sectors reliant on advanced 
semiconductors and artificial intelli-
gence (AI). Chinese companies have 
made notable progress in these and 
other key technologies despite U.S. 
and allied export controls intended 
to limit China’s access to the most 
advanced technologies.
• China has sought to soften the 
impact of U.S. tariffs by increasing 
exports to other countries, while 
Chinese companies are increasingly 
offshoring manufacturing capacity, 
both to avoid tariffs as well as to 
ensconce themselves deeper in key 
supply chains. To seek leverage 
against the United States, China has 
implemented retaliatory tariffs and 
export controls on critical minerals 
and rare earth magnets. China has 
also targeted retaliation at specific 
U.S. firms.
• China continues its efforts to position 
itself as the reliable partner of choice 
for trade and investment, particularly 
with emerging markets. At the same 
time, a variety of countries, including 
many of those same emerging market 
countries, have begun to implement 
their own tariffs and other barriers 
to safeguard their manufacturing 
industries from China’s massive 
excess supply. 
Key Findings
YEAR IN REVIEW
<<<PAGE 18>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
18
Over the past year, China has sought 
to present itself as a responsible 
world leader despite engaging in a 
range of destabilizing activities that 
have undermined global peace and 
security. General Secretary of the 
Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Xi 
Jinping has persisted in challenging 
U.S. global leadership and asserting 
China’s position on the world 
stage, including by hosting dozens 
of world leaders for a Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization (SCO) 
summit in Tianjin followed by a 
military parade in Beijing. China 
has also escalated its use of gray 
zone tactics—coercive military, 
economic, and influence operations 
short of war—against Taiwan, in the 
South China Sea, and around Japan’s 
Senkaku Islands. Beyond its own 
Year in Review
CHAPTER 2:
U.S.-CHINA SECURITY 
AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
FIGURE 2
OPERATIONAL DETAILS OF THE PLA NAVY TASMAN SEA LIVE-FIRE EXERCISE
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
PHILIPPINES
Paciﬁc Ocean
Tasman
Sea
Type 055 stealth guided missile destroyer 
Zunyi & replenishment vessel Weishanhu
February 13
PLA Navy group
reunites
PLA Navy 
group separates
March 9
PLA Navy group
returns to South China Sea
via Sunda Strait
February 21 and 22
Live Fire Exercises
Sunda Strait INDONESIAINDONESIA
INDONESIA
PAPUA
NEW GUINEA
CAMBODIA
MALAYSIA MALAYSIA
VIETNAM
February 11
-Type 054A frigate Hengyang 
transits Torres Strait
-Drone spotted in Papua New 
Guinea airspace
2,000 mi1,0000
APPROXIMATE ROUTE OF PLA NAVY GROUP
SECTIONS OF AUSTRALIA’S AND 
NEW ZEALAND’S EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONES
Note: EEZs are depicted using the standard 200 nautical mile baseline from countries’ coastlines.
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
YEAR IN REVIEW
<<<PAGE 19>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
19
borders, Beijing has continued 
to stoke violence and instability 
by supplying dual-use goods to 
Russia and otherwise helping 
sustain its war against Ukraine, 
funding Iran and its terrorist 
proxies in the Middle East, and 
intensifying cyberattacks on the 
United States and countries 
around the world. 
China’s efforts to undercut U.S. cred-
ibility and advance its own interests 
overseas have also been supported 
by its approach to domestic gov-
ernance. Over the past year, China 
has deepened its anticorruption 
campaign with the aim of quashing 
internal dissent, forged ahead with 
its military modernization efforts, 
and continued its longstanding 
efforts to control religious institu-
tions it sees as fueling separatism 
and undermining Party rule. 
Considered in the aggregate, these 
actions reflect Beijing’s continued 
rapid preparations for the possibility 
of conflict and its systematic efforts 
to erode U.S. deterrence across the 
military, economic, technological, 
cyber, and diplomatic domains.
• China has used the pretext of a “turbu-
lent” external environment to justify 
its ongoing campaign to quash internal 
dissent and enforce absolute political 
loyalty to the CCP. Over the past year, 
China has sharply increased spending 
on domestic public security, punished 
officials for disciplinary infractions at 
record rates, and continued to purge 
senior military leaders perceived as 
insufficiently loyal.
• Despite purges of key military leaders, 
China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) 
significantly advanced its military 
modernization efforts over the past 
year—increasing its stockpile of nuclear 
warheads, introducing new amphib-
ious assault ships and stealth fighter 
jets, expanding its drone deployment 
capacity, and enhancing its capa-
bility to launch an attack on Taiwan 
with little advance warning. China is 
increasingly willing to use PLA capa-
bilities to send political messages, as 
demonstrated by unprecedented naval 
live-fire exercises conducted in the 
Tasman Sea off the coast of Australia 
and New Zealand (see Figure 2).
• Beijing has continued its efforts to 
construct an alternative world order 
with itself at the center—symbolized 
most powerfully in 2025 by images 
of the leaders of Russia, North Korea, 
Iran, and about 20 other mostly 
authoritarian countries gathered 
behind Xi Jinping at a military parade 
in Beijing commemorating China’s 
victory in World War II.
• In meetings with leaders from 
Asia, Africa, and Latin America, 
China has sought to undermine U.S. 
credibility and bolster its credentials 
as a leader of the “Global South” 
by accusing the United States of 
disrupting international order while 
professing its own commitment to 
free trade, development assistance, 
and international law—despite 
often failing to follow through 
on such promises.
• While claiming to be a source 
of international stability, China 
has continued to threaten global 
security by undertaking gray zone 
activities in the Indo-Pacific and 
around the world. China routinely 
engages in provocative military 
maneuvers near Taiwan and in 
the South and East China Seas, 
has sabotaged critical undersea 
communications cables near Taiwan 
and in the Baltic Sea, and has 
escalated cyberattacks on the 
United States.
• China has also fanned the flames 
of conflict by supplying dual-use 
goods to sustain Russia’s war in 
Ukraine, funding Iran and its ter-
rorist proxies through purchases of 
sanctioned Iranian oil, and providing 
North Korea with diplomatic cover 
and material support that advances 
its cyber and weapons programs, 
thereby complicating global efforts 
to constrain these countries’ 
destabilizing activities. 
• Taken together, these actions form a 
coordinated strategy to prepare China 
for the possibility of potential conflict 
while steadily seeking to erode U.S. 
deterrence and the resilience of allied 
security networks. 
Key Findings
YEAR IN REVIEW
<<<PAGE 20>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
20
As the most powerful and sys-
temically integrated of these 
countries, China has been the 
“decisive enabler” of this group 
and its destabilizing activities. 
By cooperating with—and legiti-
mizing—these heavily sanctioned 
countries, Beijing has developed 
significant leverage over them, 
effectively casting them as junior 
partners in the relationship. While 
this dynamic has generated some 
underlying friction, the advantages 
gained from their collective power 
have outweighed the disadvan-
tages. To respond to this increasing 
alignment among China, Russia, 
Iran, and North Korea, the United 
States must work in concert with 
allies and partners to deter desta-
bilizing activities and prepare 
to respond to multiple potential 
regional flashpoints. Unfortunately, 
the necessity to confront this 
challenge has come at a time when 
growing divisions within many 
democratic societies have under-
mined their willingness and ability 
to act in a concerted fashion 
to resist these efforts.
China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea 
are forging closer strategic, military, 
and economic ties that increase their 
ability—individually and collec-
tively—to challenge the interests of 
the United States and its allies and 
partners around the world. These 
states share common objectives in 
undermining U.S. global leadership 
and elements of the international 
system that promote democracy 
and human rights, while seeking to 
reshape them to endorse autocratic 
rule and the use of coercion and 
military force to advance national 
interests. Although the relationships 
among China, Russia, Iran, and North 
Korea may not constitute an alli-
ance as traditionally conceived, the 
partnerships allow the countries to 
consider the use of force, undertake 
provocative actions, and otherwise 
act in ways they could not sustain 
on their own. This cooperation has 
intensified since Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine in 2022, as China, Iran, and 
North Korea have provided Russia 
with political, economic, and military 
support to sustain its war of aggres-
sion, allowing it to circumvent U.S. 
and international sanctions and dip-
lomatic pressure. As the alignment is 
based more on shared interests and 
expediency than trust and loyalty, 
each country may decline to assist 
meaningfully when counterpro-
ductive to their larger objectives, 
as China and Russia did after the 
United States struck nuclear facili-
ties in Iran in June. 
CHAPTER 3:
AXIS OF AUTOCRACY: 
CHINA’S REVISIONIST AMBITIONS 
WITH RUSSIA, IRAN, AND 
NORTH KOREA 
As the most powerful and systemically 
integrated of the axis countries, China 
has been the “decisive enabler” of this 
group and its destabilizing activities.
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
<<<PAGE 21>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
21
• China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea 
are forging closer strategic, military, 
and economic ties that increase their 
ability—individually and collectively—
to challenge the strategic interests 
of the United States and its allies. 
This cooperation is rooted in a shared 
desire to undermine U.S. global 
leadership and reshape elements of 
the rules-based international order, 
including concepts of sovereign 
equality, peaceful resolution of con-
flict, and respect for human rights. 
Instead, the countries seek an order 
that favors autocratic governance 
and their capacity to extend their 
regional spheres of influence. 
• While China, Russia, Iran, and 
North Korea individually pose a 
significant threat to U.S. interests, 
their growing cooperation collec-
tively magnifies the challenge. Each 
is emboldened to undertake actions 
it could not sustain on its own, and 
their cooperative efforts make it far 
more difficult to secure U.S. national 
security, economic prosperity, and 
peace and stability around the world. 
• Cooperation among the “axis” 
countries has deepened since 
Russia’s full-scale invasion of 
Ukraine in 2022, as Russia has 
drawn on China, Iran, and North 
Korea to support its war efforts and 
to help it overcome the subsequent 
international condemnation and 
sanctions. For example, China-Russia 
bilateral trade has increased 66.7 
percent since 2021. Each axis country 
has also benefited in different ways 
from its support to Moscow. 
• China has played the central diplo-
matic, economic, and financial role in 
this informal alignment. These rela-
tionships have become increasingly 
asymmetric, with China effectively 
casting the others as junior partners. 
While this dynamic has generated 
some underlying friction, such ten-
sions have largely been mitigated by 
shared interests and mutual benefits. 
• As the alignment is based more on 
shared interests and expediency than 
trust and binding obligation, each 
country has freedom of action and the 
ability to decline to participate in a con-
flict. This flexibility was evident in the 
failure of China and Russia to provide 
support to Iran after the United States 
struck its nuclear facilities in June. 
• China’s preference for flexible 
partnerships over formal alliances 
reflects its opportunistic approach 
to diplomacy, in which it seeks to 
take advantage of a relationship that 
serves its interests while avoiding 
entanglements that do not benefit 
it. Beijing seeks to have it both 
ways—cooperating closely with these 
partners that defy international 
norms and institutions while simulta-
neously trying to promote an image 
as a responsible stakeholder to the 
broader international community that 
values those norms and institutions.
• China’s deepening cooperation with 
Russia, Iran, and North Korea raises 
significant concerns for Indo-Pacific 
security. Their coordination increases 
the risk of opportunistic aggression, 
a situation in which one regional 
conflict creates an opening for another 
actor to take advantage of the United 
States’ diverted attention and resources 
to launch operations elsewhere. In a 
Taiwan contingency, such dynamics 
could force the United States to face 
tough choices on escalation and 
resource allocation. The collaboration 
among these powers substantially 
increases the risk of regional conflicts 
transforming into broader global crises.
• China is the major trade and invest-
ment partner for these countries, 
helping them mitigate the adverse 
effects of U.S. and multilateral 
sanctions. Chinese entities have been 
instrumental in facilitating circum-
vention of export controls. China’s 
opaque financial system has been vital 
in money laundering and sanctions 
evasion by Russian, Iranian, and North 
Korean agents. Together, China’s pol-
icies have provided a lifeline that has 
allowed these countries access to the 
resources, technologies, and dual-use 
equipment needed to stay in power 
and continue destabilizing activities.
• The sum of China’s sanctions and 
export control evasion activities is 
greater than the individual compo-
nents. China’s role as a hub for a diverse 
array of countries’ sanctions evasion 
activities effectively allows for pooling 
of resources and economies of scale for 
companies and service providers that 
facilitate sanctions evasion. The net-
work effect of Chinese and non-Chinese 
actors creates shared learning opportu-
nities about evasion tactics, presenting 
new challenges for sanctions strategy 
and enforcement. 
Key Findings
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
<<<PAGE 22>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
22
Asia. China’s goal is to entrench 
itself as the regional hegemon 
while undermining the United 
States’ reputation with both 
policymakers and the publics in 
Southeast Asian countries. On the 
military front, China has pursued 
access to bases and dual-use 
facilities in Southeast Asia while 
deploying aggressive gray zone 
As a region, Southeast Asia con-
stitutes the world’s third-largest 
population center and fifth-largest 
economy and straddles strategic 
sea lanes connecting the Indian 
Ocean to the Western Pacific—
making the region a crucial arena 
for U.S.-China competition. Beijing 
has long viewed Southeast Asia as 
its own “backyard” and has sought 
to establish economic and military 
dominance in the region as part of 
its overall strategy for weakening 
U.S. power in the Indo-Pacific. 
China has made large and sustained 
investments in expanding high-level 
diplomacy, security relationships, 
soft power programs, and influ-
ence operations in Southeast 
CHAPTER 4:
CROSSROADS OF COMPETITION: 
CHINA AND SOUTHEAST ASIA
Note: The 2025 full-year projection is calculated as the product of 2024 total trade and year-over-year growth in year-to-date total trade through August 2025.
Source: China General Administration of Customs, “China: Imports from ASEAN, China: Exports to ASEAN,” via Haver Analytics.
FIGURE 3
ASEAN’S GROWING TRADE DEFICIT WITH CHINA, 2015–2025 (PROJECTED)
$1,200
$800
$400
$0
-$400
-$800
-$1,200
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
USD BILLIONS
TOTAL TRADE (LEFT AXIS) TRADE BALANCE (LEFT AXIS)
ASEAN DEFICIT AS % OF TOTAL TRADE (RIGHT AXIS)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
PROJECTED
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
<<<PAGE 23>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
23
tactics to advance its unfounded 
territorial claims in the South China 
Sea—risking embroiling the region 
in a devastating military con-
flict. At the same time, China has 
sought to expand its cooperation 
with Southeast Asian countries on 
non-traditional security issues such 
as transnational crime as a means 
to export authoritarian policing 
practices and expand its security 
influence in the region. 
Beijing has also amassed signif-
icant economic leverage in the 
region. China is Southeast Asia’s 
largest trading partner, and coun-
tries in the region have been 
among the top destinations for 
China’s Belt and Road Initiative 
(BRI) projects. Chinese compa-
nies have invested heavily in the 
region’s critical infrastructure, 
including telecommunications 
equipment, electrical grids, data 
centers, and undersea cables, 
exposing Southeast Asian coun-
tries and—potentially—U.S. firms 
and military assets in the region 
to data security and sabotage 
risks. China’s efforts in Southeast 
Asia—alongside its campaign to 
erode U.S. partnerships and gain 
access to dual-use infrastructure 
in the Pacific Islands—threaten the 
United States’ ability to protect its 
economic and security interests 
throughout the Indo-Pacific region.
• China views establishing regional 
economic and military hegemony in 
Southeast Asia as core to its strategy 
to undermine U.S. power in the Indo-
Pacific. China’s overarching goals in 
the region include full control of the 
South China Sea, expanding access to 
basing and dual-use infrastructure for 
its military, guaranteeing the People’s 
Liberation Army (PLA) Navy’s access 
to crucial sea lanes, providing land 
access to the Indian Ocean around the 
chokepoint of the Strait of Malacca, 
and keeping Southeast Asian mar-
kets open to Chinese exports and 
investment. At the same time, China 
is working to ensure that Southeast 
Asian countries do not provide access 
and logistical support to the United 
States in the event of conflict in the 
Indo-Pacific.
• Over the past two decades, China has 
increased its influence in Southeast 
Asia relative to the United States 
by devoting extensive resources to 
diplomacy and soft power initiatives 
alongside its growing trade and 
investment ties with the region. 
More recently, China has sought to 
exploit changes in U.S. trade policy 
and foreign aid to present itself as 
the more reliable partner for regional 
countries’ development goals.
• China has taken increasingly coer-
cive actions to assert its control 
over the South China Sea, an area of 
tremendous strategic significance to 
the country and one of the busiest 
maritime trade routes in the world. 
China’s aggressive actions in the 
South China Sea, especially those 
targeting the Philippines—a country 
with which the United States has 
a mutual defense treaty—make the 
region a potential flashpoint for U.S.-
China military conflict.
Key Findings
continued >
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
China views establishing regional 
economic and military hegemony in 
Southeast Asia as core to its strategy to 
undermine U.S. power in the Indo-Pacific.
<<<PAGE 24>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
24
• In addition to pursuing access to 
military facilities in Southeast Asia, 
Beijing has adopted an “inside-out” 
approach to expanding its security 
influence in the region that aims to 
gain a foothold inside the internal 
security apparatuses of regional 
countries—which it can then use as 
a source of leverage to constrain 
their external security behavior. 
China has deployed its internal 
security forces in several Southeast 
Asian countries—including Burma 
(Myanmar), Cambodia, and Thailand—
in an attempt to gain the allegiance 
of regional leaders by helping them 
maintain “regime security” through 
authoritarian policing and surveil-
lance methods.
• Chinese crime syndicates operate 
industrial-scale “scam centers” across 
Southeast Asia that generate tens 
of billions of dollars in annual revenue 
by employing forced laborers to con-
duct online scams under conditions 
observers have likened to modern 
slavery. Beijing has selectively cracked 
down on scam centers that target 
Chinese victims, leading Chinese 
criminal organizations to conclude 
that they can make greater profits 
with lower risk by targeting the 
United States instead. According to 
conservative estimates, Americans 
lost at least $5 billion to such scams 
in 2024. Scam centers have also 
provided a pretext for China to 
expand its security presence in the 
region by pressuring Southeast Asian 
countries—including U.S. allies such 
as Thailand—to allow Chinese security 
personnel to operate on their territory. 
• China has expanded its economic 
ties with Southeast Asia through 
trade and is growing its foreign direct 
investment (FDI) in strategic sectors 
like manufacturing and technology. 
China is the leading trade partner with 
ASEAN as a whole and with almost 
every ASEAN country individually. 
These extensive trade and investment 
ties, combined with ASEAN’s con-
tinued rapid growth and “the ASEAN 
way” favoring “neutrality” in geopol-
itics, indicate that Southeast Asia is 
likely to be the locus of significant 
economic competition between the 
United States and China.
• Southeast Asia’s trade relationship 
with China has become increasingly 
unbalanced in recent years, with the 
region’s trade deficit almost doubling 
between 2020 and 2024 amid a 
surge in exports from China (see 
Figure 3). This trend reflects efforts 
by Chinese exporters to find markets 
other than the United States, the 
shifting of intermediate supply 
chains to avoid tariffs, and an 
accelerated flow-over from China’s 
massive and growing domestic 
excess capacity in many manufac-
turing industries. Southeast Asia 
may be ground zero for the second 
China Shock.
• China’s dominance of regional 
supply chains and control over 
critical infrastructure provide it 
considerable leverage to further its 
strategic aims. Although Southeast 
Asian countries are cognizant of 
risks associated with those ties 
to China, geographic reality and 
China’s position as the largest 
external trade partner for the region 
constrain their ability to respond 
to this threat. 
• Chinese technology firms are 
competing with U.S. and European 
firms for dominance in Southeast 
Asia’s digital infrastructure. The 
presence of Chinese providers 
and equipment in telecommunica-
tions networks, data centers, and 
undersea cables exposes host coun-
tries to data security and potential 
sabotage risks. These risks may also 
impact U.S. firms and military assets 
operating in the region. 
> continued 
Key Findings
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
<<<PAGE 25>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
25
have heightened the Pacific 
Islands’ strategic significance to 
the United States and its allies and 
partners. For Beijing, the Pacific 
Islands region is crucial to its goals 
As the United States’ gateway to 
the Indo-Pacific region, the Pacific 
Islands occupy a crucial position 
in U.S.-China strategic competition 
(see Figure 4). While the United 
States has relationships with many 
Pacific Islands dating back more 
than a century, China’s systematic 
efforts to build influence in the 
region over the past few decades 
CHAPTER 5:
SMALL ISLANDS, BIG STAKES: 
CHINA’S PLAYBOOK IN THE 
PACIFIC ISLANDS
FIGURE 4
MAP OF THE PACIFIC ISLAND COUNTRIES
GUAM
TAIWAN
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
PHILIPPINES
NEW CALEDONIA
AMERICAN
SAMOA
FRENCH 
POLYNESIA
NORTHERN 
MARIANA 
ISLANDS
SOUTH
KOREA
HAWAII
SINGAPORE
JAPAN
CHINA
UNITED STATES
COOK
ISLANDS
SAMOA
FIJI
NIUE
TONGA
VANUATU
PALAU
PAPUA 
NEW
GUINEA SOLOMON 
ISLANDS
FED. STATES 
OF 
MICRONESIA
TUVALU
KIRIBATI
MARSHALL 
ISLANDS
NAURU
Equator
International Date Line
First IslandChain
SecondIslandChain
Total Landmass: 200,000 sq mi / 518,000 sq km
Total Estimated Area of EEZs: 7.4 million sq mi / 19.1 million sq km
14 PACIFIC ISLAND COUNTRIES
1,000 mi5000
COFA Agreement with the 
United States
Diplomatic Relations with 
Taiwan
Police/Security Arrangements 
with China
Note: The 14 Pacific Island countries refer to Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New 
Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu. There are three permanently inhabited U.S. territories in the region: American Samoa, Guam, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. EEZs are depicted using the standard 200 nautical mile baseline from countries’ coastlines.
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
GUAM
TAIWAN
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
PHILIPPINES
NEW CALEDONIA
AMERICAN
SAMOA
FRENCH 
POLYNESIA
NORTHERN 
MARIANA 
ISLANDS
SOUTH
KOREA
HAWAII
SINGAPORE
JAPAN
CHINA
UNITED STATES
COOK
ISLANDS
SAMOA
FIJI
NIUE
TONGA
VANUATU
PALAU
PAPUA 
NEW
GUINEA SOLOMON 
ISLANDS
FED. STATES 
OF 
MICRONESIA
TUVALU
KIRIBATI
MARSHALL 
ISLANDS
NAURU
Equator
International Date Line
First IslandChain
SecondIslandChain
Total Landmass: 200,000 sq mi / 518,000 sq km
Total Estimated Area of EEZs: 7.4 million sq mi / 19.1 million sq km
14 PACIFIC ISLAND COUNTRIES
1,000 mi5000
COFA Agreement with the 
United States
Diplomatic Relations with 
Taiwan
Police/Security Arrangements 
with China
<<<PAGE 26>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
26
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
of projecting military power and 
hindering the United States’ ability 
to flow forces across the Pacific 
in the event of a conflict in the 
Taiwan Strait or the broader Indo-
Pacific region. In pursuit of these 
goals, China has sought to enhance 
its status in the Pacific Islands 
through diplomacy and strategic 
investments while also attempting 
to undermine U.S. relationships 
through a systematic campaign of 
malign influence activities, including 
cyberattacks, economic coercion, 
and disinformation. 
China has become a key trade 
and investment partner for 
virtually every Pacific Island 
country, enabling it to wield 
economic leverage that helped 
convince several countries in 
the region to abandon diplomatic 
ties with Taiwan and support 
Beijing’s policy preferences in 
international organizations. 
Over the past several years, 
China has also begun to use its 
economic and political influence 
in the region to push for new 
security partnerships and police 
cooperation agreements with 
Pacific Island countries, laying 
the groundwork for Beijing to 
gain access to dual-use facilities 
at strategic points throughout 
the region. If China succeeds at 
establishing itself as the dominant 
power in even a small number of the 
Pacific Islands, it could—alongside 
China’s efforts to project military 
power in Southeast Asia—hinder 
the United States’ ability to protect 
its interests in the Indo-Pacific and 
significantly alter the global balance 
of power in Beijing’s favor.
FIGURE 5
UNITED STATES’ AND CHINA’S SHARE OF TOTAL PACIFIC ISLANDS TRADE, 2012–2023
Note: This figure excludes trade between Pacific Islands countries in calculating the percentage of total trade.
Source: CEPII, “BACI: International Trade Database at the Product-Level,” January 30, 2025.
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
PERCENT TOTAL TRADE
CHINA
UNITED STATES
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
3.8%
12.9%
2.7%
13.4%
2.4%
12.9%
2.3%
20.3%
2.8%
20.7%
3.5%
20.3%
3.0%
21.8%
2.4%
19.2%
2.3%
20.6%
2.9%
21.4%
2.6%
24.3%
2.8%
29.1%
<<<PAGE 27>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
27
• Beijing views the Pacific Islands 
region as essential to its goals 
of blunting U.S. military power 
in the Indo-Pacific, projecting its 
own power beyond the second 
island chain, and isolating Taiwan 
diplomatically and militarily. 
China has invested significant 
resources into a multifaceted 
strategy to expand its influence 
and undermine U.S. relationships 
across the region to achieve 
these objectives.
• Over the past two decades, 
China has systematically 
expanded high-level diplomacy, 
propaganda, people-to-people 
exchanges, media penetration, 
and malign influence activities in 
the Pacific Islands in an attempt 
to shape the region’s information 
environment in ways favorable to 
Beijing and harmful to the United 
States and its allies and partners. 
• China has spent decades building 
economic influence in the Pacific 
Islands. China is now a major trade 
partner for almost every Pacific Island 
country (see Figure 5), far outpacing 
the United States and even overtaking 
traditional partners like Australia. The 
dependence of Pacific Island econo-
mies on exports to China and Chinese 
tourism have exposed the region 
to China’s economic leverage and 
coercion. China has also exploited its 
investments in the region to engage 
in elite capture, entrench preferred 
providers in critical infrastructure, and 
develop control over critical resources. 
• Over the past several years, China 
has leveraged its political and eco-
nomic influence to expand security 
and police cooperation with Pacific 
Island countries, enabling Beijing to 
promote authoritarian security norms 
and potentially lay the groundwork 
for access to dual-use facilities.
• The United States has deep ties to 
the Pacific Islands that long predate 
the more recent efforts by China 
to build influence and undermine 
U.S. partnerships in the region. In 
response to China’s growing pres-
ence in the region, the United States 
and like-minded countries such as 
Australia and Japan have taken sig-
nificant steps to further enhance ties 
with Pacific Island countries.
• Nevertheless, China is working to 
exploit reductions in U.S. diplomatic 
and development assistance in the 
region and advance the narrative that 
China is the more stable long-term 
partner. The relative weakening of 
U.S. influence in the Pacific Islands 
could have severe implications for U.S. 
power projection in the Indo-Pacific, 
potentially hindering the United 
States’ ability to deter Chinese military 
aggression in the South China Sea, 
the Taiwan Strait, and globally. 
Key Findings
If China succeeds at establishing itself 
as the dominant power in even a small 
number of the Pacific Islands, it could 
hinder the United States’ ability to protect 
its interests in the Indo-Pacific and 
significantly alter the global balance 
of power in Beijing’s favor.
REMAKING THE WORLD ORDER
<<<PAGE 28>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
28
develop and support firms that will 
dominate established markets and 
control emerging sectors.
Numerous industrial policy successes 
demonstrate the strength of China’s 
industrial commons and how advances 
in overlapping industries catalyzed 
innovation in other technologies or 
products. China’s electric vehicle (EV) 
industry was built on a range of 
In the decade since launching 
Made in China 2025 (MIC2025), 
the Chinese Communist Party’s 
(CCP) industrial, science, and inno-
vation policies have multiplied and 
expanded in scope. China deploys 
an arsenal of tools to execute these 
policies and affect its capacity to 
develop and produce advanced 
technology. The evidence shows that 
comprehensive strategic planning, 
massive state funding, and adaptive 
implementation have allowed China 
to overcome previous industrial 
policy failures. As roads and bridges 
act as public goods benefiting the 
entire state, China’s policies have 
constructed an “industrial com-
mons”—a collective resource base 
Chinese firms can exploit to advance 
technological capabilities. This indus-
trial commons positions China to 
Source: Kyle Chan, “China’s Overlapping Tech-Industrial Ecosystems,” High Capacity, January 22, 2025. 
CHAPTER 6:
INTERLOCKING INNOVATION 
FLYWHEELS: CHINA’S 
MANUFACTURING AND 
INNOVATION ENGINE
FIGURE 6
INTERLOCKING INNOVATION FLYWHEELS
COMPETITION IN CONTESTED FRONTIERS
<<<PAGE 29>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
29
• Chinese industrial policy has estab-
lished the landscape for becoming an 
advanced manufacturing and inno-
vation powerhouse. By conducting 
industrial policy on an unprecedented 
scale, China now leads global innova-
tion in many targeted sectors and has 
built a manufacturing base that is inte-
grated into many legacy and advanced 
technology supply chains.
• China’s industrial policy systematically 
constructs clusters of interconnected 
manufacturing capabilities while securing 
control over foundational technologies. 
Innovation follows manufacturing, 
and China is leveraging this approach 
to generate “interlocking innovation 
flywheels”—technical advances in one 
sector rapidly catalyze breakthroughs in 
adjacent sectors, creating compounding 
technological advantages that accelerate 
with each cycle (see Figure 6).
• Through MIC2025 and related policies, 
China has secured dominance in much of 
the legacy and advanced componentry 
for today’s most prevalent consumer 
and enterprise technology products. 
Given that key innovations often 
happen on the factory floor, China’s 
current dominance gives it a signifi-
cant leg up in terms of future cycles 
of iteration and innovation as well as 
a source of essential components for 
new technologies. 
• China’s industrial policy and Party-state 
control have also positioned it to attain 
first-mover advantage in technologies 
of the future, like synthetic biology, 
quantum technologies, and automation 
(including humanoid robots). Where the 
key sectors in MIC2025 mostly reflect 
mature markets in which China seeks 
to displace incumbents, becoming the 
first mover in emerging and nascent 
technologies would position China 
to set the future rules of the road.
• Rapid growth in targeted industries 
has not offset weakness in the broader 
economy, producing a two-speed 
economy in which prioritized high-tech 
sectors contrast with lagging sectors 
beset by structural economic chal-
lenges. All indications suggest General 
Secretary of the CCP Xi Jinping will 
prioritize China’s technology ambitions 
over other policy goals. He believes 
developing and moving into new 
technologies can strengthen China’s 
competitiveness vis-à-vis the United 
States and other prospective competi-
tors. China’s expenditure on industrial 
policy has had a cumulative impact 
that will continue to drive advances in 
research and development (R&D) and 
manufacturing capabilities, meaning 
that momentum in the high-speed 
economy will likely continue to grow. 
• Overinvestment and overcapacity 
resulting from China’s industrial 
policies have consistently led to large 
economic distortions across the value 
chain for targeted sectors. These dis-
tortions often threaten U.S. producers 
and developing economies attempting 
to move up the value chain. They also 
create an environment of intense 
competition within China as firms 
compete for market share in arti-
ficially expanded markets, forcing 
firms to increase efficiency, reduce 
production costs, and repeatedly cut 
sales prices to stay ahead of rivals. 
The firms that survive this process, 
like EV maker BYD, are then typically 
highly competitive in global markets.
• In the early stages of these product 
cycles, and often beyond, China’s 
approach is divorced from market 
principles, and its success largely 
stems from using subsidies, state 
coordination, and other nonmarket 
practices to undercut competitors 
in foreign markets. 
Key Findings
preexisting capabilities, including 
lithium batteries for consumer 
electronics and a large automobile 
manufacturing sector. In turn, EVs 
served as a platform that helped 
drive innovation in directly related 
sectors, like battery technology, and 
in related capabilities, like LiDAR used 
in autonomous systems. Similarly, 
China’s capabilities in industrial 
robotics are supporting the emergence 
of AI-enabled factory production 
models, promising scalable gains 
across the manufacturing sector. 
In synthetic biology, China’s sophisti-
cated laboratory infrastructure 
and growing biotech manufacturing 
base are positioning it to become 
a leader in commercializing global 
scientific discoveries from phar-
maceutical to non-pharmaceutical 
applications, with state-backed 
facilities enabling rapid translation 
from research to production at scale.
COMPETITION IN CONTESTED FRONTIERS
<<<PAGE 30>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
30
COMPETITION IN CONTESTED FRONTIERS
battlespace awareness, operational 
coordination, and capacity for force 
projection. These capabilities improve 
China’s ability to monitor, target, 
and challenge U.S. and allied forces 
across the Indo-Pacific. Over the past 
decade, China has launched more 
than 1,000 satellites, dramatically 
increasing its capacity for persistent 
surveillance, communications, and 
precision targeting in support of long-
range strike systems. The PLA has 
also fielded both ground- and 
China has embarked on a whole-
of-government strategy to become 
the world’s preeminent space 
power. Beijing views space as a 
warfighting domain and it seeks 
to achieve space superiority 
as a cornerstone of its broader 
effort to establish information 
dominance—a prerequisite to 
controlling the battlespace and 
gaining operational advantage 
in future conflicts. To this end, 
China has rapidly developed, 
deployed, and operationalized 
advanced capabilities in space 
launch, satellites, and ground-based 
infrastructure spanning its civil, 
military, and commercial sectors. 
These advancements are closing 
the gap in the strategic competition 
between the United States and 
China in space. 
The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) 
is rapidly expanding its space- and 
ground-based assets to enhance its 
CHAPTER 7:
THE FINAL FRONTIER: CHINA’S 
AMBITIONS TO DOMINATE SPACE
FIGURE 7
MAP OF SPACE COOPERATION WITH CHINA
Democratic
Republic
of the Congo
South Africa
Antarctica
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Serbia
Turkey
Venezuela
CubaMexico
Panama
Malaysia
Argentina
Burma
Laos
Sri Lanka
Namibia
Angola
Mozambique
Pakistan
Kenya
Tanzania
Rwanda
Ethiopia
Djibouti
Ecuador
Belarus
Sweden
Austria
Nigeria
Burkina
Faso
Algeria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
China
France
United
Kingdom
Hungary
Indonesia
Italy
Luxembourg
Nicaragua
Russia
Saudi
Arabia
Senegal
United
Arab
Emirates
Uzbekistan
Tunisia
Bolivia
Nepal
Thailand Cambodia
Philippines
Egypt
Sudan
BrazilPeru
Chile
Iran
China’s International Space Partners
China-Linked Ground Stations
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
<<<PAGE 31>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
31
space-based counterspace capabilities 
designed to deter U.S. military action 
or, in the event of a conflict, degrade 
U.S. space-enabled operations and 
power projection. However, as Beijing 
has expanded its military space 
capabilities, it has also deepened its 
own dependency on space assets, 
potentially creating vulnerabilities of 
its own. Like any spacefaring nation, 
this dependency exposes China to 
counterspace threats that could 
disrupt its command and control 
(C2), precision strike, and situational 
awareness capabilities in a conflict.
Globally, China has harnessed its 
ambitious space program to deepen 
relations with developing countries 
and expand its space architecture 
in support of military, commercial, 
and broader strategic gains (see 
Figure 7). China’s rapid progress 
in establishing a private, though 
state-directed, commercial space 
ecosystem in just a decade poses a 
formidable technological, economic, 
and geostrategic challenge to the 
United States. Employing state-led 
industrial policy and drawing on 
its vast network of state-owned 
enterprises in aerospace and 
defense, China has quickly culti-
vated a dynamic startup sector 
focused on seeking to rival U.S. firms 
in commercial launch and satellite 
networks. With a growing list of 
civil space achievements, China is 
aggressively positioning itself as 
a global leader in space technology 
and exploration. It is now seeking 
to reshape international space gov-
ernance, influence the development 
of technical standards, and displace 
the United States as the world’s 
premier space power.
FIGURE 8
BREAKDOWN OF AREAS OF SPACE COOPERATION WITH CHINA
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
Country
Ground 
Station
Satellite/ 
Launch
Partner-
ship
Algeria x x x
Angola x
Antarctica x
Argentina x x x
Austria x
Azerbaijan x x
Bahrain x x
Belarus ● x x
Bolivia x x x
Brazil x x x
Burkina Faso ● x
Burma (Myanmar) x
Cambodia ■ x
Chile ■ ■
Cuba x
DRC ●
Djibouti ●
Ecuador x
Egypt x x
Ethiopia x x x
Country
Ground 
Station
Satellite/ 
Launch
Partner-
ship
France x
Hungary ✦
Indonesia x x x
Iran ● x x
Italy x x
Kazakhstan x x x
Kenya x x
Kyrgyzstan x
Laos x x x
Luxembourg ✦
Malaysia x x
Mexico x x
Mozambique x x
Namibia x x
Nepal x
Nicaragua x
Nigeria x x
Pakistan x x x
Panama x
Peru x x
Country
Ground 
Station
Satellite/ 
Launch
Partner-
ship
Philippines x
Russia x x x
Rwanda x
Saudi Arabia x x
Senegal x
Serbia ● x
South Africa x x
Sri Lanka x
Sudan x x
Sweden ■ ■ ■
Tanzania x
Thailand x x x
Tunisia x x x
Turkey x
UAE x
United Kingdom x
Uzbekistan x
Venezuela x x x
Ground Station: Countries allowing China to use and/or build local 
ground infrastructure, often to support telemetry, tracking, and 
command of space assets.
Satellite/Launch: Countries that have agreements to use Chinese satellites 
and/or to have China build or launch a satellite for them.
Partnership: Countries that have signed some type of agreement 
to work with China on space issues.
Caveats:
■ Countries have cooperated with China on this in the past. However, the 
media reported that the cooperation has been or will be discontinued.
● The media reported that China has reached an agreement to undertake 
certain activities, but there are no indications the activity has occurred.
✦ The cooperation is between a non-government entity and China.
COMPETITION IN CONTESTED FRONTIERS
<<<PAGE 32>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
32
• China is pursuing an aggressive 
long-term, whole-of-government 
campaign to expand its space 
capabilities across military, com-
mercial, and civil domains with the 
explicit intent of surpassing the 
United States. These rapid advances 
in space pose an escalating threat 
to U.S. national security, intensify 
U.S.-China strategic competition 
for international partnerships, 
and undermine the ability of U.S. 
commercial firms to compete 
internationally.
• China views space as a warfighting 
domain and has invested heavily in 
weapons and technologies that can 
degrade, damage, or destroy the U.S. 
satellites that provide the backbone 
of the U.S. military’s C2 network 
as well as its targeting system. By 
seeking to deprive the U.S. military 
of the use of space-based assets, the 
PLA aims to deny the United States 
the ability to employ its advanced 
military systems, eroding the foun-
dations of U.S. power projection 
and joint operations.
• Over the past ten years, China has 
launched a wide variety of satellites 
on an aggressive schedule, fielding 
a growing array of space-based 
capabilities that has strengthened 
its ability to coordinate its own 
operations as well as to conduct 
the persistent surveillance and 
targeting of U.S. forces. This effort 
is part of China’s broader strategy 
to achieve space superiority and 
strengthen its ability to use long-
range precision weaponry to target 
and disrupt the flow of U.S. forces 
in the Indo-Pacific. 
• China is actively leveraging its 
space capabilities as strategic tools 
to expand its geopolitical influence. 
Through offering other countries 
the use of its satellite networks, 
launch services, and space infra-
structure, China enhances the 
resilience and global coverage of 
its space architecture. At the same 
time, it draws partner nations 
more deeply into its technological 
ecosystem, creating long term 
strategic and economic dependen-
cies on Chinese technology (see 
Figure 8).
• China’s military-civil fusion strategy 
erases the line between military and 
civilian space activities, enabling 
systems and technologies such as 
satellites, robotic arms, and launch 
systems to serve both commer-
cial ends and PLA objectives. The 
dual-use nature of these systems— 
compounded by blurry lines between 
state-owned enterprises and nomi-
nally private firms—makes it difficult 
to distinguish commercial innova-
tion from military capability. 
• In just ten years, China has dra-
matically transformed an almost 
non-existent commercial space 
sector into a thriving, state-orches-
trated startup ecosystem. Fueled 
by strong government backing and 
industrial prowess, Beijing is now 
seeking to cultivate national cham-
pions that will challenge U.S. space 
companies on the global stage at 
a fraction of the cost. This strategy 
does not just seek innovation and 
commercial advancement—it seeks 
to reshape the competitive balance 
in what will be the most strategic 
domain of the 21st century. 
• China has achieved major civil 
space milestones, such as the 
Chang’e-6 mission returning the 
first samples from the Moon’s far 
side. These “global firsts” are much 
more than just about science; 
Beijing uses them to assert tech-
nological leadership to reshape 
global perceptions of power. The 
competition now extends beyond 
symbolic milestones to a contest 
over who will define the rules, 
infrastructure, and norms gov -
erning space. If the United States 
cedes leadership, China is poised 
to advance a state-driven, opaque 
governance model that could 
embed long-term global reliance 
on its systems and standards.
• Losing U.S. leadership in space 
would amount to relinquishing the 
advantage first secured during the 
original space race. China seeks 
to use its rapid advancements 
in space to position the country 
as a technological powerhouse 
and undermine U.S. prestige and 
economic competitiveness. Falling 
behind in space would not only 
diminish U.S. standing, it would 
also threaten U.S. national security, 
global influence, technological 
dominance, and commercial 
competitiveness in the growing 
space economy. 
Key Findings
COMPETITION IN CONTESTED FRONTIERS
<<<PAGE 33>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
33
clothing. While these industries are 
more at risk than before, China has 
also begun to produce higher-value- 
added goods at scale, the result of 
years of technology theft, govern-
ment subsidies, and aggressive 
industrial policies. 
The glut of Chinese exports is deep-
ening global market dependence 
on China and exacerbating supply 
China’s economic model continues 
to generate a major imbalance 
between weak domestic demand 
and excess supply of manufac-
tured goods. China uses its excess 
capacity to manufacture goods like 
steel and automobiles at a scale it 
cannot consume on its own, leading 
to extreme price wars between 
producers. Rather than attempt 
to rebalance its economy, China is 
exporting its economic distortions 
in the form of low-priced goods, 
thereby threatening the world with 
a second “Shock” (see Figure 9). 
This China Shock 2.0 is already 
upending manufacturing sectors 
in both developing and developed 
countries, up and down the value 
chain, as China’s flood of exports 
is no longer limited to low-value-
added goods like furniture and 
CHAPTER 8:
CHINA SHOCK 2.0
FIGURE 9
SHARE OF CHINESE INDUSTRIAL ENTITIES OPERATING AT A LOSS, DECEMBER 2014–DECEMBER 2024
Source: China’s National Bureau of Statistics, “China: Number of Enterprises, China: Number of Loss-Making Enterprises,” via Haver Analytics.
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
DEC. 2014 DEC. 2016 DEC. 2018 DEC. 2020 DEC. 2022
DEC. 2015 DEC. 2017 DEC. 2019 DEC. 2023DEC. 2021
DEC. 2024
11.9%
13.2%
11.9% 11.8%
15.1%
15.9%
17.3%
16.5%
20.2%
21.6%
22.8%
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
<<<PAGE 34>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
34
chain vulnerabilities. Regions like 
Southeast Asia that once benefited 
from global trade integration are 
now at risk of deindustrialization 
as their exports are undercut by 
Chinese goods. Germany, South 
Korea, and Japan are also at risk 
as their basket of exports increas-
ingly resembles China’s. Beyond 
merely carving out a larger share of 
global profits for Chinese corpora-
tions, China’s market dominance is 
translating into control over choke-
points in key global supply chains 
for goods like pharmaceuticals and 
electronics. China’s investment in 
manufacturing facilities abroad 
undercuts efforts by the United 
States and its allies and partners 
to diversify production to other 
emerging markets. 
Responses to this new Shock 
have been fragmented, relying on 
outdated tools that no longer match 
the reality of today’s global trading 
system. Additionally, incentives to 
push back on these export practices 
are not always aligned with the 
desire to continue selling commod-
ities to China or benefiting from 
Chinese outbound foreign direct 
investment (FDI). At risk are not 
just today’s factories and jobs in 
manufacturing: as China floods global 
markets with its goods, it will gain a 
more dominant share of key markets, 
gutting foreign competitors and pro-
pelling them into a downward spiral 
of deindustrialization (the focus of 
this chapter). This in turn will lead to 
greater control over critical supply 
chain chokepoints (the focus of the 
next chapter). Beijing has already 
shown its willingness to weaponize 
its control of the critical minerals 
sector; a new China Shock will fur-
ther strengthen China’s leverage over 
supply chains and ability to employ 
economic coercion to advance 
its interests.
FIGURE 10
CHINA’S TRADE WITH THE WORLD (ROLLING 12-MONTH TOTAL, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED), 
AUGUST 2015–AUGUST 2025
Source: China’s General Administration of Customs, via Haver Analytics. 
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
$4,000
$3,500
$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500
$0
USD BILLIONS
FEB. 16 FEB. 17 FEB. 18 FEB. 19 FEB. 20 FEB. 21 FEB. 22 FEB. 23 FEB. 24 FEB. 25
EXPORTS
IMPORTS
TRADE SURPLUS
AUG. 15 AUG. 16 AUG. 17 AUG. 18 AUG. 19 AUG. 20 AUG. 21 AUG. 22 AUG. 23 AUG. 24 AUG. 25
<<<PAGE 35>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
35
• The world is facing the threat of 
a China Shock 2.0, whereby over-
production in key industries across 
China’s highly subsidized manu-
facturing sector floods outward, 
causing major harm to industries in 
other countries. China Shock 2.0 is a 
manifestation of General Secretary of 
the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) 
Xi Jinping’s economic plan—massive 
state subsidies and other distortions 
to boost production, reliance on 
foreign markets to absorb the excess 
supply, and minimal attention to 
addressing continued, structurally 
weak domestic demand.
• China’s export of excess production is 
undercutting global competitors and 
winning market share across the value 
chain, from commodities to interme-
diate inputs to finished goods (see 
Figure 10). China’s economic model 
increasingly limits other emerging 
market countries to the lowest-val-
ue-added stages of manufacturing. 
• Emerging markets have traditionally 
been welcoming to Chinese FDI 
in manufacturing, viewing it as 
an opportunity to facilitate labor 
upskilling and the development of 
local industry. However, Chinese FDI 
poses potential problems for host 
countries as well. Chinese officials 
are increasingly reluctant to allow 
domestic firms to transfer tech-
nology abroad, lessening benefits to 
host countries. In addition, Chinese 
FDI may deepen reliance on Chinese 
inputs and open the host country 
to concerns that it serves as a base 
for Chinese transshipment or 
tariff evasion. 
• In emerging markets, China’s 
surging exports have already led 
to job losses and factory closures. 
Emerging market countries have 
begun to wake up to the threat, 
employing various tools to push 
back against China’s unfair trade 
practices and preserve local 
industry and jobs, with varying 
degrees of success. International 
trade agreements have proven 
less durable protection; in many 
cases they merely constrain 
the policy responses of China’s 
trading partners, facilitating the 
harms from China Shock 2.0, 
even though China’s economic 
model is inconsistent with the 
foundational assumptions of those 
trade agreements. 
• China’s surging exports of higher- 
end goods are taking market share 
from producers in other countries, 
particularly those in developed 
countries, including the United 
States. While emerging markets are 
imperiled by other aspects of China 
Shock 2.0, they have little incentive 
to implement barriers to Chinese 
exports in those industries that do 
not compete with local manufac-
turing. Over time, the long-term 
harm to U.S. and other non-Chinese 
producers may be significant. 
Revenue from foreign markets 
has helped sustain U.S. economic 
strength and technological leader -
ship by providing opportunities 
to scale. Losing this revenue will 
make it harder to invest in next 
generation technology. 
Key Findings
As China floods global markets with 
its goods, it will gain a more dominant 
share of key markets, gutting foreign 
competitors and propelling them into a 
downward spiral of deindustrialization.
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
<<<PAGE 36>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
36
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
PCBs embedded in global elec-
tronics products. Foundational 
semiconductors are a likely future 
vulnerability. China’s breakneck 
expansion in production capacity 
threatens to flood the market and 
put competitors out of business if 
left unaddressed. In that case, the 
United States may soon depend 
on access to China’s chip industry 
for producing a wide variety of 
electronic devices.
As covered in the preceding 
chapter, an ongoing flood of low-
cost Chinese goods is spilling into 
global markets amid a second 
China “Shock,” threatening to 
put global competitors out of 
business in sector after sector and 
positioning China for dominance 
over ever more supply chains. 
Without bold action to strengthen 
domestic production, de-risk 
from potential adversaries, and 
coordinate more closely with allies 
and partners, the United States 
will become ever more dependent 
on Chinese supply chains while 
Beijing in turn strengthens its 
ability to exert leverage via those 
supply chains by imposing either 
targeted controls or larger-scale 
embargoes on critical exports 
to the United States.
China has long made clear its 
willingness to use its economic heft 
to advance the Chinese Communist 
Party’s (CCP) strategic interests. 
In the past five years, however, 
it has intensified this strategy by 
prioritizing control over key supply 
chains. China has already deployed 
export controls on critical minerals 
as a coercive tool, including to seek 
policy concessions in trade negoti-
ations with the United States and 
to punish other countries. However, 
critical minerals are just one among 
several key sectors in which the 
United States is highly dependent 
on Chinese sources or could become 
dependent in the near future. 
Other key sectors include active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), 
printed circuit boards (PCBs), and 
foundational semiconductors—all 
of which are vital to national secu-
rity and commercial stability and 
for which even short-term, partial 
disruption could cripple critical 
industries and military readiness. 
With potentially as much as one-
quarter of all APIs sourced from 
China directly—or indirectly through 
India—U.S. pharmaceutical supply 
chains face a vulnerability that could 
have drastic consequences for the 
American healthcare system. PCBs 
are critical to all electronics—from 
the simplest to the most advanced. 
Though Beijing faces practical 
barriers to restricting Chinese PCB 
content to U.S. end users, China has 
substantial and growing leverage in 
this important sector, both via direct 
sales to the United States and much 
more significantly via made-in-China 
CHAPTER 9:
CHAINED TO CHINA: 
BEIJING’S WEAPONIZATION 
OF SUPPLY CHAINS
Without bold action to strengthen 
domestic production, de-risk from 
potential adversaries, and coordinate 
more closely with allies and partners, 
the United States will become ever more 
dependent on Chinese supply chains.
<<<PAGE 37>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
37
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
INFORMAL PROHIBITION UNRELIABLE ENTITY LIST
FIGURE 11
CHINA’S INCREASING USE OF EXPORT CONTROLS (2010–2025)
Note: *2025 is as of October 10. The number of export control events refers to individual restrictions. Export restriction refers to limits 
of exports over time (for example, Chinese manufacturers limited sales of drone components to the United States and Europe in December 
2024). By contrast, export prohibition refers to a complete ban (for example, of certain materials like gallium, germanium, antimony, 
and superhard materials to the United States in the same month).
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
15
12
9
6
3
0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025*
NUMBER OF EXPORT CONTROL EVENTS
LICENSING REQUIREMENT EXPORT RESTRICTION
Export Controls Law PASSED
Provisions on the Unreliable Entity List ANNOUNCED
In the past few years, China’s economic 
coercion toolkit has evolved rapidly 
in sophistication and impact.
<<<PAGE 38>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
38
• China has held a dominant posi-
tion in many global supply chains 
for years, once concentrated in 
lower-value products and materials 
but now extending to advanced 
technologies. In the past few years, 
the country’s economic coercion 
toolkit has evolved rapidly in 
sophistication and impact. China 
now appears poised to accelerate 
its weaponization of supply chain 
chokepoints, potentially imposing 
significant short-term costs on the 
United States and other trade part-
ners, eroding industrial resilience, 
and constraining U.S. policy choices 
(see Figure 11).
• China’s economic model systemat-
ically leads to a concentration of 
global productive capacity in indus-
tries targeted for state support, and 
establishing such chokepoints has 
been an explicit CCP policy goal for 
years. China’s supply chain leverage 
in key sectors will continue to grow 
over time if unchecked. To date, the 
United States and other countries 
have taken only limited measures to 
mitigate this threat. In the short-
term, China has already shown an 
ability and willingness to weaponize 
its dominant position in critical 
minerals supply chains, including 
export restrictions on gallium, 
germanium, and rare earth magnets 
in 2023–2025.
• China dominates the supply 
of APIs and other key starting 
materials (KSMs)—all of which 
are essential for U.S. drug supply 
chains. If Beijing actively restricts 
U.S. access to these materials, the 
consequences could be catastrophic 
for U.S. health security, the broader 
economy, and potentially 
military readiness.
• China controls roughly half of global 
production of PCBs, the essential 
building blocks of virtually all elec-
tronic devices on which integrated 
circuits and other components are 
mounted. The United States has 
lost much of its domestic capacity 
to produce PCBs and has become 
heavily reliant on Chinese imports. 
Losing access to this supply of 
Chinese PCBs would likely shut 
down U.S. electronics manufac-
turing across multiple sectors, 
including those related to defense, 
aviation, and critical infrastructure. 
• China’s coming production surge 
in foundational semiconductors 
will pose a serious economic and 
security threat to the United 
States and other major semi- 
conductor-producing economies. 
Foundational semiconductors are 
workhorse components that, while 
less advanced than leading-edge 
chips, are critical to the function-
ality of most electronic devices. 
Overcapacity in this sector could 
drive other producers out of busi-
ness and make the world heavily 
reliant on Chinese producers for 
components that form the back-
bone of both the modern economy 
and a modern military.
• Because supply chain vulnerabil-
ities can take years to unwind, 
it is critical for the United States 
to immediately develop a more 
effective risk-mapping tool that 
identifies where Chinese leverage 
currently exists as well as the 
sectors where Beijing’s leverage 
will likely grow in the future. In 
order to eliminate such critical 
dependencies and avoid them 
in the future, the United States 
must formulate and commit to a 
long-term strategy of supply chain 
de risking—requiring close cooper-
ation with allies and partners—to 
achieve the conditions necessary 
for greater safety and resiliency. 
Key Findings
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
<<<PAGE 39>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
39
minerals necessary for the energy 
sector (see Figure 12). Beijing 
began the process of weapon-
izing U.S. dependence on Chinese 
critical mineral refiners in July 
2023 and could potentially use its 
manufacturing capacity in other 
critical products and materials as 
economic leverage. The extensive 
use of Chinese components in the 
U.S. power grid creates risks for 
cyber espionage and sabotage—
which are significant in light of 
China’s stated strategy and known 
activities like PRC-sponsored Volt 
Typhoon’s efforts to pre-position 
assets in U.S. critical infrastruc-
ture. Additionally, China’s role 
in international energy systems 
expands its geostrategic influence, 
potentially giving it leverage over 
U.S. allies and partners or third 
countries that also depend on 
China for energy imports or even 
allow Chinese investment in their 
energy systems.
China’s “electrification” strategy 
is increasing its influence in the 
global energy sector, which carries 
a number of risks for the United 
States. China’s economy is rapidly 
electrifying, adding more hydro, 
nuclear, solar, and wind power 
generation in 2024 than Germany’s 
annual total power consumption. 
Through massive state support and 
other forms of market distortions, 
China has become a dominant 
manufacturer of certain types of 
equipment at each stage of power 
generation and consumption. 
Building on decades of energy 
infrastructure construction abroad, 
China’s role in global energy 
systems continues to expand 
through exports of low-carbon 
energy technologies and electricity 
grid components and investment 
in electric vehicle (EV) and battery 
factories abroad. The appeal of 
China’s energy technology exports 
and investments is particularly 
strong in developing countries, 
where—aside from offering cheap 
solutions—China’s technologies may 
mitigate developmental challenges 
like rural electrification in areas 
with weak grid infrastructure. The 
massive scale of China’s production 
and investment across all stages 
of the electric power system has 
shifted the trajectory of global 
markets in a direction that benefits 
Chinese manufacturers.
The risks for the United States 
arising from China’s expanding 
exports and investments include 
supply chain vulnerabilities—given 
high U.S. reliance on certain mate-
rials and products sourced from 
China—and cybersecurity threats 
to U.S. critical infrastructure. China 
supplies over half of the United 
States’ imports of battery energy 
storage systems and low-voltage 
transformers, and it is a leading 
refiner of almost all the critical 
CHAPTER 10:
POWER SURGE: CHINA’S 
ELECTRIFICATION DRIVE AND 
PUSH FOR GLOBAL ENERGY 
DOMINANCE
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
<<<PAGE 40>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
40
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
FIGURE 12
CHINA’S SHARE OF OUTPUT ACROSS THE GLOBAL EV AND LITHIUM-ION BATTERY SUPPLY CHAINS, 2024
Note: Statistics for 2024 mining and battery components are estimated and projected. The International Energy Agency is not responsible for the derived work.
Source: U.S. Geological Survey, International Energy Agency, and Yano Research Institute.
Copper
Lithium
Cobalt
Nickel
Graphite
Rare Earth Elements
Copper
Lithium
Cobalt
Nickel
Graphite
Rare Earth Elements
Cathode Materials
Anode Materials
Electrolytes
Separators
0%
0%
0%
10%
10%
10%
20%
20%
20%
30%
30%
30%
40%
40%
40%
50%
50%
50%
60%
60%
60%
70%
70%
70%
90%
90%
90%
80%
80%
80%
100%
100%
100%
CHINA REST OF WORLD
MINING
REFINING
BATTERY CELL COMPONENTS
<<<PAGE 41>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
41
• China’s government-supported dom-
inance in key “new energy” sectors 
and growing footprint in global 
energy systems more generally raise 
numerous national security concerns 
for the United States and other coun-
tries. These risks include dependency 
on Chinese exports and technology, 
with associated leverage accruing to 
Beijing. Chinese components and sys-
tems also raise cybersecurity-related 
risks to critical infrastructure, which 
are acute in light of PRC malign 
efforts like Volt Typhoon.
• China’s restrictions on critical mineral 
exports to the United States demon-
strate its willingness and ability to 
leverage control of energy technology 
supply chains for economic coercion. 
Beijing could use similar tactics to 
undermine U.S. diplomatic objectives 
and negotiations with third countries. 
In 2025, firms across North America, 
Europe, and Asia faced mounting 
delays and demands for sensitive 
data during China’s mineral export 
license reviews—turning supply chain 
chokepoints into instruments of coer-
cion and corporate surveillance.
• China’s burgeoning role in global 
energy systems is occurring through 
multiple channels: its firms are 
involved in the construction and 
operation of energy infrastructure 
globally, its components are embedded 
in power systems throughout the 
world, and its manufacturers are 
increasingly investing in overseas 
factories to boost market 
share abroad.
• China’s national energy strategy has 
been focused on using government 
policy to grow “electrification” as a 
means of reducing its reliance on 
fossil fuel imports, boosting energy 
efficiency, and reducing pollution and 
carbon emissions. While it is still the 
world’s leading consumer of fossil 
fuels, China has made significant 
progress toward its electrification 
goals, including by continuing 
to build coal-fired power plants.
• In light of global trends in favor of 
reduced carbon emissions, Beijing saw 
electrification as having benefits not 
only for its energy policy but also for 
its goals to become a global manu-
facturing superpower and grow its 
geostrategic power. China leveraged 
access to its market and its industrial 
policy toolset to become a dominant 
producer of key “new energy” tech-
nologies, including EVs, batteries, solar 
panels, and core wind turbine compo-
nents. Its policies have already wiped 
out solar panel makers in the United 
States and EU, and similar dynamics 
threaten foreign producers of EVs, 
wind turbines, and other low-carbon 
technologies, undermining efforts to 
de-risk supply chains. China is also 
a major producer of key equipment 
used in energy storage, transmission, 
and distribution. 
Key Findings
The extensive use of Chinese components 
in the U.S. power grid creates risks for 
cyber espionage and sabotage.
ECONOMIC DISTORTIONS AND COERCION
<<<PAGE 42>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
42
diversification away from China. 
The United States has continued to 
support Taiwan through weapons 
sales and security assistance while 
working with Taiwan to enhance 
economic ties and build secure 
supply chains.
We have entered a crucial phase 
in Beijing’s longstanding efforts 
to impose sovereignty over Taiwan. 
China is rapidly advancing toward 
its goal of being prepared to take 
Taiwan by force—while Taiwan and 
the United States strive to maintain 
the capacity to deter a Chinese 
invasion. China’s persistent military 
activities near Taiwan, combined 
with new capabilities such as large 
amphibious assault ships and 
mobile piers, have enhanced China’s 
capacity to blockade or launch 
an invasion of Taiwan with little 
advance warning. Beijing has also 
continued to escalate its multifac-
eted pressure campaign targeting 
Taiwan through military threats, 
economic coercion, and malign 
influence activities. Over the past 
year, Beijing has focused much of 
its information warfare activities 
on exacerbating domestic political 
divisions in Taiwan and driving a 
wedge between Taiwan and the 
United States. Moreover, China 
has continued its efforts to isolate 
Taiwan in the international arena by 
pressuring other countries to adopt 
Beijing’s preferred positions and 
language regarding Taiwan. 
In response to China’s escalating 
pressure campaign, Taiwan has 
made progress enhancing its 
military deterrence and social 
resilience through larger and more 
realistic military exercises, efforts 
to accelerate the acquisition of new 
asymmetric defense capabilities, 
and new measures to counter 
Chinese malign influence. Taiwan 
has also continued to leverage its 
crucial role in technology supply 
chains—particularly its dominant 
position in advanced semiconductor 
manufacturing—to hasten economic 
CHAPTER 11:
TAIWAN
FIGURE 13
INCIDENTS OF CHINESE VESSELS SABOTAGING UNDERSEA CABLES 
NEAR TAIWAN IN 2025
Source: See the full Annual Report for complete list of sources.
SOUTH CHINA SEA
EAST CHINA SEACHINA
TAIWANSTRAIT
TAIWAN
Kinmen
(Taiwan)
Matsu
Islands
(Taiwan)
Fuzhou
Taipei
2/25/2025
1/3/2025
Tainan
HONGTAI58
SHUNXING39
Kaohsiung
!
!
12/5/2024 to 1/3/2025
1/16/2025 to 2/25/2025
50 mi0 25
Location of 
Cable Break
Recorded Routes of Chinese-
Owned Vessels Engaged in 
Cable Sabotage*
Undersea Cables
Chinese-Owned Vessels 
Suspected of Cable Cutting!
* Breaks in the line indicate the ship turned off AIS transponder 
 transmitting position data
TAIWAN AND HONG KONG
<<<PAGE 43>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
43
• Beijing is attempting to exploit 
domestic divisions in Taiwan by con-
tinuing its two-pronged approach 
to cross-Strait relations. On the 
one hand, Beijing has issued harsh 
threats against Taiwan’s Democratic 
Progressive Party (DPP)-led govern-
ment, which it accuses of promoting 
Taiwan independence. On the other 
hand, Beijing has also stepped up 
efforts to court opposition leaders, 
business interests, and youth 
in Taiwan through promises of 
economic benefits and cross-Strait 
exchange programs.
• In light of China’s near-constant 
military training activities and 
maneuvers near Taiwan, as well 
as the People’s Liberation Army’s 
(PLA) improved military hardware 
and operational readiness, U.S. 
and Taiwan military officials have 
warned that the PLA could imple-
ment a blockade within “a matter of 
hours” and would potentially need 
only “minimal conversion time” prior 
to an attack on Taiwan.
• In addition to intensifying its military 
pressure on Taiwan, Beijing has also 
expanded a multifaceted campaign to 
weaken Taiwan’s will to resist through 
economic coercion and inducements, 
espionage, information warfare, and 
undersea cable sabotage (see Figure 
13). Chinese propaganda has focused 
especially on attempting to sow doubt 
about the U.S. commitment to Taiwan 
by fomenting uncertainty surrounding 
U.S. policies on Ukraine, tariffs, 
and semiconductors.
• Taiwan has made progress improving 
military readiness, enhancing 
societal resilience, and diversifying 
its economy. Nevertheless, bureau-
cratic inertia in the military as well 
as political gridlock between the 
DPP-controlled executive branch and 
the Kuomintang (KMT)-controlled leg-
islature have cast uncertainty around 
efforts to speed up the modernization 
of Taiwan’s defenses.
• Despite rising tensions with China, 
Taiwan’s economy continued to 
perform strongly, driven by 
insatiable global demand for 
semiconductors and electronics. 
Taiwan’s continued leadership 
in technology manufacturing 
processes coupled with efforts 
to diversify its trade and invest -
ment partners have begun to shift 
dependence away from China, 
limiting the sting of Beijing’s 
economic pressure campaign. 
• Taiwan is now among the United 
States’ top ten trading partners, 
with goods exported to the United 
States overtaking those to China 
for the first time in over two 
decades. Taiwan’s chip manufac-
turers have pledged record levels 
of foreign direct investment (FDI) 
to build semiconductor manufac-
turing facilities in the United States. 
As China pursues a strategy of 
technological and manufacturing 
dominance, Taiwan’s companies 
will be important partners to 
prevent over-reliance on Chinese 
supply chains. 
Key Findings
China’s persistent military activities near 
Taiwan, combined with new capabilities, 
have enhanced China’s capacity to blockade 
or launch an invasion of Taiwan with little 
advance warning.
TAIWAN AND HONG KONG
<<<PAGE 44>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
44
• As the Hong Kong government 
marked the fifth anniversary of the 
National Security Law, its ongoing 
crackdown has eliminated a once 
vibrant civil society and created an 
atmosphere of repression comparable 
to mainland China. The Hong Kong 
government continues to grant the 
Mainland authority and oversight of 
the city, passing legislation to award 
Beijing additional powers to inter-
vene in local law enforcement via 
the Office for Safeguarding National 
Security (OSNS).
• Hong Kong security forces have 
expanded a campaign of transna-
tional repression against leaders 
of the democracy movement who 
fled abroad, placing bounties on an 
additional 15 activists—including 
two Canadian citizens—canceling 
passports, and blocking access to 
their pensions. Authorities have also 
escalated harassment of activists’ 
family members still in Hong Kong.
• After an exodus of foreign firms 
following China’s imposition of the 
National Security Law in 2020, a 
concerted charm offensive to retain 
international business and rehabil-
itate Hong Kong’s pro-commerce 
image appears to be bearing fruit. 
Many foreign firms remain in 
Hong Kong due to its proximity 
to mainland China.
• Hong Kong has emerged as an export 
controls and sanctions evasion hub, 
facilitating international transactions 
with and flows of restricted goods 
and advanced technology to Russia, 
Iran, and North Korea.
• Beijing’s intervention to block 
CK Hutchison from selling its 
port investments, including in the 
Panama Canal, makes clear that 
Hong Kong firms are now subject 
to Chinese Communist Party 
(CCP) directives and that the 
Party will interfere in commercial 
transactions to advance its geo-
strategic objectives. For foreign 
firms and financial institutions 
operating in Hong Kong, this 
interference should be seen as an 
alarming precedent. Beijing could 
invoke the National Security Law 
to intervene in Hong Kong’s civil 
proceedings, and the expanding 
reach of national security legis-
lation could be used to interfere 
with transactions even with no 
mainland China or Hong Kong 
nexus. 
Key Findings
extension of the Mainland’s devel-
opment objectives. Although Hong 
Kong officials maintain a pretense of 
independence in order to court inter-
national investment, the expansion 
of “national security” into all domains 
and pressure on private firms to 
operate in line with Beijing’s political 
objectives make Hong Kong’s system 
increasingly indistinguishable from 
the Mainland.
Beijing has dissolved the final 
vestiges of Hong Kong’s political 
freedom, eliminating the last oppo-
sition party and expanding on the 
draconian Article 23 Ordinance to 
tighten its oversight of Hong Kong’s 
legal system under an expansive 
definition of “national security.” 
Civil society and free speech have 
followed similar fates, as author-
ities have largely succeeded in 
intimidating Hong Kong’s citizens 
to discourage them from engaging 
in open opposition. The government 
has increased vigilance against 
so-called “soft resistance” at home 
while offering bounties on dissidents 
abroad. Nonetheless, attempts to 
assuage foreign businesses oper-
ating in Hong Kong appear initially 
successful, even as it is clear Beijing 
sees Hong Kong primarily as an 
CHAPTER 12:
HONG KONG
TAIWAN AND HONG KONG
<<<PAGE 45>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
45
Physical copies of the full 2025 Annual Report to Congress are available 
upon request to congressional offices and other U.S. government entities. 
<<<PAGE 46>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
46
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF 
THE COMMISSION’S 2025 
RECOMMENDATIONS
The Commission considers 10 of its 28 recommendations to Congress to be of particular significance. 
These recommendations are denoted by an orange triangle ▲ next to the number.
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Chapter 3: Axis of Autocracy: 
China’s Revisionist Ambitions with 
Russia, Iran, and North Korea
The Commission recommends:
 ▲ 1. Congress consider legislation establishing a consolidated 
economic statecraft entity to address the evolving national 
security challenges posed by China’s systematic and persistent 
evasion of U.S. export controls and sanctions. 
This new unified economic statecraft entity, at a minimum, should 
include: the Bureau of Industry and Security (U.S. Department of 
Commerce), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (U.S. Department of the 
Treasury), the Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation’s 
Office of Export Control Cooperation (U.S. Department of State), the 
Defense Technology Security Administration (U.S. Department of Defense), 
and other appropriate organizations across the executive branch.
This entity should be:
▶ Integrated into the Intelligence Community with enhanced 
access to real-time intelligence on evasion networks and real-
time intelligence sharing capabilities with industry to identify 
emerging evasion tactics;
▶ Equipped with enforcement authorities comparable to those 
wielded by the Treasury Department in the financial sanctions 
sphere, including law enforcement authorities to pursue 
aggressive enforcement against violators; 
▶ Structured as a direct report to a single cabinet official or 
the President of the United States so as to ensure strategic 
coordination across government, unencumbered by the 
interagency processes; and
▶ Equipped with resources for technology development, analysis, 
and international coordination, and authority to implement robust 
verification systems and supply chain tracking technologies. 
This recommendation addresses the critical gap between 
export controls and sanctions as written and their actual 
enforcement, recognizing that China and Russia continue 
to successfully circumvent existing safeguards while U.S. 
technological advantages erode. Modernizing export controls 
and sanctions infrastructure represents an essential evolution 
of U.S. economic statecraft for the strategic competition era.
The United States urgently requires modernization of its export 
controls and sanctions regime to counter China’s systematic 
and persistent circumvention tactics. The current fragmented 
approach across multiple agencies dilutes accountability and 
prioritization. Consolidating these authorities under a single 
entity would create clear ownership, institutional incentives 
to prioritize enforcement, and concentrated resources dedicated 
to countering circumvention. Today’s dispersed structure 
does not enable such focused effort. The Commission notes 
that Congress passed the Foreign Investment Risk Review 
Modernization Act of 2018 (FIRRMA), which strengthened the 
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. Since the 
passage of FIRRMA and the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 
(ECRA), economic statecraft has evolved dramatically, revealing 
significant gaps in enforcement of export controls and sanctions. 
The Commission defers to congressional committees regarding 
the optimal organizational placement of this consolidated 
authority, recognizing that the primary objective is ensuring 
America’s key offensive tools of economic statecraft are 
modernized, adequately resourced, and strategically 
coordinated to address 21st-century threats.
2. Congress direct the Intelligence Community (IC) to produce, 
within 180 days, an assessment of China’s support for Russia’s 
war against Ukraine. This report should examine all the various 
forms of Chinese assistance and sanctionable activities, including 
but not limited to economic, technological, military, intelligence, 
information, and cyber operations, and assess how such support 
has affected the conduct of the war. In addition to a classified 
report to the relevant committees of Congress, the IC should 
be directed to produce an unclassified version suitable for 
wider dissemination.
<<<PAGE 47>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
47
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
3. Congress pass legislation to create an Undersea Cable Security 
Initiative to counter Chinese and Russian sabotage of undersea 
cables. The legislation should:
▶ Ban Chinese vessels from laying, maintaining, and repairing 
U.S.-invested cables; 
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 
in coordination with other relevant agencies, to take 
measures to monitor and secure critical cables, including 
through the use of sensors, surveillance satellites, and 
joint coast guard patrols with allies and partners; and
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of State, in coordination with 
other relevant agencies, to work with allies and partners 
to support the development of a multinational fleet of cable 
repair ships to respond rapidly to incidents of sabotage.
Chapter 4: Crossroads of Competition: 
China and Southeast Asia 
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 4. Congress direct the President to create an interagency task 
force to combat scam centers, which are primarily operated 
by Chinese criminal networks in Southeast Asia and defraud 
Americans of billions of dollars annually. The task force should:
▶ Work with the Intelligence Community to:
▶ Assess the extent to which China has obtained 
Americans’ sensitive personal data stored on computers 
and phones confiscated in raids on scam centers and 
evaluate how Beijing could use that data; and 
▶ Prepare a report in both classified and, if possible, 
unclassified form detailing the extent to which the 
Chinese government has ties to the individuals and 
criminal enterprises that run scam centers.
▶ Foster cooperation with U.S. technology companies and 
financial intermediaries to detect and stop scams, particularly 
cryptocurrency investment fraud;
▶ Create training programs for U.S. law enforcement on 
sophisticated new cyber scams and implement a national 
public awareness campaign;
▶ Enhance law enforcement cooperation and intelligence 
sharing with allies and partners to dismantle scam centers, 
recover stolen assets, and protect victims’ personal data; and
▶ Implement sanctions on individuals, corporations, and 
foreign government officials that perpetrate and enable 
online scams.
5. Congress pass legislation to equip the Philippines to more 
effectively counter China’s military aggression and malign 
influence and support U.S. national security goals in the region. 
The legislation should:
▶ Support the Philippines Coast Guard (PCG) on the front lines 
of deterring Chinese aggression by:
▶ Providing the necessary resources to the U.S. 
Departments of State, Defense, and Homeland Security 
to maintain PCG capacity-building programs funded by the 
Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement 
Affairs (INL); and 
▶ Ensuring the PCG is prioritized in Foreign Military 
Financing (FMF).
▶ Enhance Philippines engagement with the Quadrilateral 
Security Dialogue (Quad) by directing the State Department 
to develop a Quad Plus dialogue and/or working group 
on gray zone or ICAD (illegal, coercive, aggressive, and 
deceptive) activities. 
▶ Provide the necessary resources and direct the State 
Department and other implementing agencies to prioritize 
initiatives related to:
▶ Cybersecurity, to counter attacks on the Philippines’ 
government and critical infrastructure;
▶ Energy security and digital infrastructure, to support 
economic development, including near U.S. military 
installations, and to secure connectivity in the Indo-Pacific;
▶ The Luzon Economic Corridor (LEC) initiative with the 
United States, Japan, and the Philippines, to develop 
infrastructure, connectivity, and supply chains across 
the Luzon Island region;
▶ Emergency preparedness, to support disaster 
response and joint U.S.-Philippines defense infrastructure 
development; and
▶ Public health, in part to maintain and build goodwill 
with the Filipino public. 
▶ Utilize the Quad Critical Minerals Initiative to support 
the Philippines’ development of alternative critical minerals 
supply chains, including in coordination with Indonesia and 
other relevant ASEAN states. In coordination with partners, 
funding from the U.S. International Development Finance 
Corporation and Export-Import Bank of the United States 
should prioritize the development of the Philippines’ domestic 
refining and processing capabilities and provide export credit 
insurance and supply chain finance solutions.
▶Strengthen defense and commercial shipbuilding in the 
Philippines in coordination with broader efforts among Indo-
Pacific allies, including South Korea and Japan, and support 
mechanisms to enhance maintenance, repair, and overhaul 
services in the Philippines.
6. Congress pass legislation to restore Radio Free Asia’s (RFA) 
full funding and operations by providing a direct appropriation 
<<<PAGE 48>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
48
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
to RFA or providing funding through a grant agreement with 
another entity, such as the National Endowment for Democracy. 
The legislation should:
▶ Preserve RFA’s ability to report on events and issues 
in China that are censored or unreported by Chinese state-
controlled media; 
▶ Enhance RFA’s unique capacity to break through Beijing’s 
“Great Firewall” and connect to people in China through its 
Mandarin, Cantonese, Tibetan, and Uyghur language services; and
▶ Endorse and strengthen RFA’s capability to counter Chinese 
influence and propaganda throughout Asia by providing local-
language information about China’s repressive, coercive, and 
aggressive actions—such as incursions in the South China Sea, 
threats against Taiwan, and the harmful effects of Belt 
and Road Initiative projects.
Chapter 5: Small Islands, 
Big Stakes: China’s Playbook 
in the Pacific Islands
The Commission recommends: 
7. Congress pass a Pacific Islands Security Initiative bill 
that would: 
▶ Bolster U.S. Coast Guard cooperation with Pacific Island 
countries and provide training and resources to support Pacific 
Island countries’ efforts to enhance law enforcement capacity, 
improve maritime domain awareness, and combat illegal, 
unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing;
▶ Strengthen economic and security assistance to Pacific 
Island countries to support U.S. national security interests and 
the priorities of partner countries;
▶ Provide dedicated funding for Voice of America and public 
diplomacy programs focused on investigative journalism and 
countering disinformation in the Pacific Islands;
▶ Create rapid response teams of legal, financial, and 
information specialists to support efforts by Pacific Island 
countries to counter Chinese malign influence; and
▶ Assess how to enhance U.S. deterrence in the Pacific Islands 
region, including the advisability of offering Compact of Free 
Association (COFA) agreements to additional countries.
Chapter 6: Interlocking Innovation 
Flywheels: China’s Manufacturing 
and Innovation Engine
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 8. See the Commission’s classified recommendation annex 
for a recommendation and discussion relating to U.S.-China 
advanced technology competition.
 ▲ 9. Congress establish as a strategic national objective that 
the United States build a resilient bioeconomy industrial base 
and unlock biology as a general-purpose technology before 
the end of the decade and support this objective through the 
following actions:
▶ Resource the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) to establish a Bio-Measurement Laboratory 
(BML). The BML should develop, support, and promulgate 
standards for biological measurements, materials, and models; 
advance measurement science and tools for biotechnology; 
and ensure U.S. standards are adopted globally as the 
foundation of the 21st-century bioeconomy.
▶ Expand the U.S. Department of Energy’s Loan Programs Office’s 
(LPO) lending authority and capacity to include biotechnology 
projects. Recognizing that the biotechnology sector (outside 
of pharmaceuticals) faces a financing shortage that threatens 
U.S. competitiveness, Congress should authorize the LPO to 
provide loan guarantees and direct loans for biotechnology 
manufacturing, infrastructure, and commercialization projects. 
All of these efforts should focus on scaling, not on pilot 
projects. This expansion should include:
▶ Explicit authority for the LPO to finance biotechnology 
projects under its other lending programs;
▶ Appropriations to cover the upfront costs of making 
biotechnology loans; and 
▶ Faster application timelines and reduced bureaucratic 
requirements for biotechnology companies to obtain loans.
▶ Strengthen and expand the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s 
BioPreferred program to establish the Federal Government 
as an anchor customer for the bioeconomy by:
▶ Establishing binding multi-year procurement 
commitments for biobased products across federal 
agencies, with priority for replacing defense and 
infrastructure materials currently sourced from countries 
of concern;
▶ Expanding BioPreferred program eligibility to include 
state, local, and tribal governments as well as universities, 
enabling broader adoption of biobased products;
▶ Increasing appropriations for the Biorefinery, Renewable 
Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance 
Program (Section 9003) loan guarantees; and
▶ Directing federal agencies to set quantified targets 
for biobased product adoption in their supply chains 
and report annually on progress toward reducing 
strategic dependencies.
<<<PAGE 49>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
49
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
The United States currently faces a future in which it depends 
on China for access to the most cutting-edge biotechnology 
innovations, sophisticated biomanufacturing equipment, and 
advanced biomaterials. The coordinated investments in standards 
development, measurement science, and deployment financing 
outlined above are essential to ensure the United States leads in 
the transformation of biology into a general-purpose technology 
capable of producing up to 60 percent of physical goods in the 
global economy by mid-century while maintaining national 
security, supply chain resilience, and economic competitiveness 
against strategic competitors.
 ▲ 10. Congress strengthen the U.S. Department of Commerce, 
Bureau of Industry and Security’s (BIS) ability to manage strategic 
competition with China in fast-moving technology sectors, such 
as leading-edge semiconductors used in artificial intelligence (AI) 
applications, and increase congressional oversight, including by: 
▶ Directing BIS to use existing authorities to require tracking 
technology for export-controlled advanced chips to detect 
and combat diversion to countries of concern; 
▶ Shifting the U.S. export control regime on advanced chips 
from a “sell” model to a “rent” model by mandating that 
any advanced chips above a certain threshold that are not 
designated as prohibited for export be accessible exclusively 
via the cloud. To do this, BIS shall create a license exception 
in the Export Administration Regulations for renting cloud 
access to export-controlled AI compute infrastructure with 
performance capabilities above a certain threshold to entities 
in countries of concern: 
▶ BIS shall determine the applicable compute threshold, 
with periodic adjustments as necessary to ensure the 
threshold adequately mitigates national security risks 
while keeping pace with technological developments and 
other trends; and
▶ BIS shall require licensees to implement know-your-
customer (KYC) identification programs and report suspicious 
activity proactively to the agency when entities domiciled 
within or controlled by countries of concern attempt to 
access the cloud infrastructure outside of approved licensing 
procedures or when approved entities use rented cloud 
infrastructure for suspected military or espionage purposes.
▶ Directing the Administration to establish a systemic, 
integrated intelligence unit embedded at BIS, including 
analysts from the Intelligence Community, to formally integrate 
technical, analytic, financial, and collection expertise to 
improve enforcement and to report to relevant committees 
of Congress outlining the additional resources, authorities, 
capabilities, and subject matter experts needed to anticipate 
and counter evasion strategies;
▶ Directing the agency to move all items subject to a 
“presumption of denial” license application review standard 
for export to China or a Chinese entity to a “policy of denial.” 
This would ensure the agency’s policy prioritizes national 
security in assessing export license applications for applicable 
items on the Commerce Control List or for technologies 
provided to companies on the Entity List; and
▶ Establishing a whistleblower incentive program for private 
citizens providing information on export control violations, 
similar to the program available to the U.S. Department 
of the Treasury under 31 U.S.C. § 5323.
The recommendation seeks to address important needs in enhancing 
BIS’s capacity to enforce export controls consistent with congressional 
intent in the Export Control Reform Act of 2018. It complements the 
Commission’s economic statecraft entity recommendation in Chapter 
3 for long-term strengthening of economic statecraft functions into 
a single entity while recognizing that implementation of such a 
recommendation to Congress is likely a multi-year process and BIS 
enforcement needs are urgent and ongoing.
 ▲ 11. Congress establish a “Quantum First” by 2030 national goal 
with a focus on quantum computational advantage in three mission-
critical domains—cryptography, drug discovery, and materials 
science. To achieve this ambitious national goal, the Commission 
recommends Congress should take the following actions:
▶ Provide significant funding for U.S. quantum development, 
focused on scalable quantum computing modalities, secure 
communications, and post-quantum cryptography. To secure 
U.S. leadership, Congress should pair this funding with quantum 
workforce development initiatives, including expanded 
fellowships, talent exchange programs with allies, and 
dedicated curricula aligned with mission needs.
▶ Prioritize modernization of enabling infrastructure, including 
cryogenic laboratories, quantum engineering centers, and next-
generation fabrication and metrology facilities. These assets 
are essential to converting scientific discovery into deployable 
systems, and many current research environments remain 
under-resourced or technologically outdated.
▶ Establish a Quantum Software Engineering Institute (QSEI) 
focused on developing the software foundations for scalable, 
secure, and interoperable quantum computing. The QSEI 
should also coordinate an open source ecosystem to accelerate 
application development and build a trusted quantum software 
supply chain. Modeled on the National Artificial Intelligence 
Research Institutes and National Manufacturing Institutes, 
the QSEI would ensure that U.S. quantum hardware is matched 
by world-class software capabilities, enabling early operational 
advantage across science, industry, and defense.
<<<PAGE 50>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
50
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Whoever leads in quantum (and artificial intelligence) will control 
the encryption of the digital economy; enable breakthroughs in 
materials, energy, and medicine; and gain asymmetric and likely 
persistent advantage in intelligence and targeting. It is imperative 
that the United States treat quantum not as a research silo but 
as a mission-critical national capability—and act accordingly. 
While the United States retains world-leading research 
capabilities, China has mobilized state-scale investment and 
industrial coordination to dominate quantum systems and standards. 
For the purposes of this recommendation, the Commission presumes 
that China is actively racing to develop cryptographically relevant 
quantum computing capabilities and is likely concealing the 
location and status of its most advanced efforts. This is a domain 
where first-mover advantage could yield irreversible strategic 
consequences, particularly given the vulnerability of current 
global systems that rely on public key cryptography.
The Quantum First 2030 timeline is essential to ensure the 
United States achieves quantum leadership before any adversary 
can leverage these capabilities against American interests. 
Quantum technologies—spanning computing, sensing, and 
communication—will shape the future of strategic advantage.
12. Congress enact legislation to promote investments that 
further three objectives: (1) continued U.S. leadership in advanced 
manufacturing and the associated workforce; (2) critical supply 
chain resilience; and (3) the security of U.S. critical infrastructure, 
including energy infrastructure. Such legislation should include 
support for programs and authorities to:
▶ Establish an industrial finance entity oriented toward 
domestic investments. Its authorities should include financing, 
equity investments, and demand-side mechanisms like 
purchase guarantees and, with respect to inputs at risk 
because of nonmarket practices, price floors for domestic 
procurement. Congress should consider a board membership 
structure appointed by the Speaker and Minority Leader of 
the House of Representatives and the Majority and Minority 
Leaders of the Senate;
▶ Reauthorize and expand, or create complementary legislation 
expanding, the authorities created by the CHIPS and Science Act 
of 2022 with respect to the three noted objectives, including:
▶ Establishing funds to provide grants, loans, and loan 
guarantees to key strategic sectors;
▶ Extending the advanced manufacturing investment 
tax credit to key strategic sectors;
▶ Providing support to workforce development and 
education efforts, including the full range of skills 
necessary for production in the United States; and
▶ Funding national hubs for research and development 
in key strategic sectors.
▶ Direct and expand procurement authorities to enable the 
Administration to utilize the full acquisitions toolkit to address 
supply chain vulnerabilities and nonmarket challenges, 
including by: 
▶ Leveraging and expanding industrial mobilization authorities; 
▶ Adding dual sourcing requirements to acquisition plans 
for key inputs, such as foundational semiconductors and 
printed circuit boards; 
▶ Providing for, where appropriate, a true-up reimbursement 
for U.S. manufactured products in critical sectors; and 
▶ Requiring services like software testing and simulation 
to be performed by U.S. firms on U.S.-owned servers 
operated in the United States. 
▶ Procurement actions and authorities should be stated with 
sufficient notice and lead time to allow firms to adjust necessary 
supply chains, and Congress should consider a multi-step process 
to achieve desired outcomes with limited disruption. 
The United States must continue to support sustained investment 
in advanced manufacturing and basic and applied research to 
maintain technological leadership and remain on the cutting edge 
of innovation. The Commission notes that China is advancing in 
multiple domains and continues to deploy licit and illicit means 
to gain a manufacturing and technological edge, which includes a 
coordinated and well-funded industrial policy alongside nonmarket 
policy distortions.
13. Congress direct the Secretary of Defense to establish a 
Government-Owned, Contractor-Operated Rapid Manufacturing 
Facility (GOCO RMF), focused on high-rate, reconfigurable 
production of airborne and maritime unmanned systems 
(both lethal and non-lethal), excluding major platforms such 
as ships and submarines.
The facility should:
▶ Serve as a surge-ready national asset, able to pivot between 
different system types based on operational need—including 
attritable drones, loitering munitions, autonomous surface 
vessels, and mission-tailored payloads;
▶ Leverage modular architectures and advanced manufacturing 
techniques—such as additive manufacturing, robotics, and digital 
engineering—to enable high-mix, low-volume, or high-volume 
production on demand;
▶ Retrain both U.S. Department of Defense personnel and 
the industrial workforce in the principles of rapid design, agile 
production, and iterative fielding, enabling a cultural shift away 
from long-cycle, perfect-on-paper procurement models;
<<<PAGE 51>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
51
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
▶ Be operated by a competitively selected contractor or 
consortium with a proven track record in agile manufacturing, 
rapid prototyping, and defense system integration;
▶ Integrate and coordinate with existing efforts—including 
the Defense Innovation Unit’s Blue Manufacturing Initiative, 
the Manufacturing Innovation Institutes, and Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (DARPA) transition partners—while 
serving as the unifying hub for defense-relevant production 
at speed; and
▶ Prioritize the production of systems that can be fielded 
within 12 to 24 months, using iterative deployment and 
feedback to improve successive generations rather than 
deferring capability in pursuit of flawless specifications.
In the event of conflict with China, the United States would face 
an adversary with an industrial base far exceeding its capacity, 
efficiency, and adaptability, and would confront modes of 
warfare that leverage China’s industrial strengths and emerging 
capabilities in autonomy and embodied intelligence. The GOCO 
RMF represents an initial effort to maintain preparedness and 
deterrence while establishing a model for defense procurement 
that would better position the military services to match and 
exceed the pacing challenge from the People’s Liberation Army.
14. Congress recognize that autonomous systems—including 
humanoid robots, industrial automation, and unmanned systems—
represent the physical embodiment of artificial intelligence and 
a critical domain where the People’s Republic of China is rapidly 
advancing. To address the challenges from China’s development 
and deployment of autonomous systems, Congress should 
direct the President to establish an Interagency Task Force on 
Autonomous Systems, chaired by the National Security Advisor, 
to coordinate federal efforts and report to Congress within 
180 days with specific implementation plans requiring:
▶ The U.S. Department of Defense to establish a Robotics and 
Automation Task Force with authority to rapidly prototype 
and deploy autonomous systems across military logistics, 
maintenance, security, reconnaissance, and combat operations;
▶ The U.S. Department of Commerce to investigate Chinese 
robotics dumping under applicable trade remedy laws, lead 
international standards development, and expand export 
controls on advanced autonomous technologies to China;
▶ The U.S. Department of Homeland Security to assess 
vulnerabilities from Chinese-made autonomous systems 
in U.S. critical infrastructure and establish mandatory 
cybersecurity standards;
▶ The U.S. Department of Labor to launch workforce 
retraining programs and robotics technician certifications 
for workers displaced by automation;
▶ The U.S. Departments of Transportation, Energy, Agriculture, 
and Health and Human Services to accelerate regulatory 
approvals for autonomous vehicles, infrastructure inspection 
systems, precision agriculture equipment, and medical robotics;
▶ The U.S. Department of the Treasury to expand Committee 
on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) review of 
all Chinese investment in U.S. robotics companies and impose 
sanctions on Chinese robotics firms supporting the People’s 
Liberation Army; and
▶ The U.S. Department of State to counter Chinese robotics 
exports to developing countries and lead allied coordination 
on autonomous weapons arms control. 
China is deploying autonomous systems at scale across its 
economy and military while the United States remains mired 
in pilot programs and bureaucratic delays. These systems will 
transform civilian life, manufacturing, and warfare faster than 
current U.S. policy anticipates. Without immediate and decisive 
action across all departments and agencies, the United States will 
cede a strategic advantage that may prove impossible to recover.
Chapter 7: The Final Frontier: 
China’s Ambitions to Dominate Space
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 15. To preserve and strengthen U.S. primacy in the critical space 
domain as China pursues sweeping advancements across military, 
commercial, and civil space sectors, Congress should:
▶ Increase or reallocate appropriations for the U.S. Space 
Force to levels necessary to achieve space control and 
establish space superiority against China’s rapidly expanding 
space and counterspace capabilities.
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Defense to enhance the U.S. 
Space Force’s capacity to conduct space wargaming and develop 
realistic modeling and simulation of potential threats from China, 
including training programs for space operators on warfighting 
tactics, techniques, and procedures necessary for space control.
▶ Conduct oversight hearings and other activities to ensure 
the United States maintains primacy in the space domain by 
identifying investments in cutting-edge space technologies 
and assessing China’s space capabilities and threats to U.S. 
space industrial base capacity.
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Commerce, in coordination 
with the U.S. Departments of Defense, State, and the Treasury, 
to produce an unclassified report to Congress within 180 days 
identifying China’s commercial space capabilities, the dual-use 
nature of Chinese space technologies, and China’s commercial 
space industry’s support to the People’s Liberation Army.
<<<PAGE 52>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
52
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
▶ Direct the U.S. National Space Council to increase 
international outreach on space launch services and ensure 
the United States remains the partner of choice for both 
government and commercial space launch.
▶ Express support for the strategic importance of U.S. 
leadership in civil space exploration and direct relevant agencies 
to assess the progress of the Artemis Accords, evaluate risks 
China poses to U.S. civil space priorities, including National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) programs, and 
ensure program delays do not undermine U.S. credibility in 
establishing global norms for lunar and Martian exploration.
Chapter 8: China Shock 2.0
The Commission recommends: 
16. Congress enact legislation to:
▶ Establish a rebuttable “presumption of denial” with respect 
to foreign investment in U.S. companies that could support 
the acquisition by China or other foreign adversaries of the 
capabilities necessary to attain self-sufficiency in critical 
technologies or otherwise impair the economic or national 
security of the United States, including: 
▶ Investments in technology areas prioritized in China’s 
or other foreign adversaries’ industrial policies, such as 
Made in China 2025, and successor initiatives;
▶ Investments in U.S. firms that have received funding 
from the U.S. Departments of Defense, Commerce, and 
Energy, or other U.S. government funding for projects 
critical to national security and competitiveness; and
▶ Other investments that may provide privileged 
access to expertise, business networks, and production 
methods critical to maintaining U.S. economic and 
technological competitiveness.
▶ Require the review of greenfield investments in the 
United States by Chinese-controlled entities to assess any 
potential harm to U.S. national and economic security. 
And, consistent with the previous provision, establish 
a rebuttable presumption of denial with respect to such 
greenfield investments if their operations would meet any 
of the criteria enumerated in that provision; and 
▶ Direct the Administration to engage with allies and partners 
to adopt similar measures through bilateral or multilateral 
engagement or agreements.
The Commission has consistently provided Congress 
recommendations regarding the improvement of and expansion 
to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States 
(CFIUS), including a recommendation in 2023 and a slate of 
recommendations in 2017, many of which were adopted under 
the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 
(FIRRMA). The Commission continues to raise concerns that the 
current structure of foreign investment screening is insufficient 
to protect the United States and U.S.-developed intellectual property 
and that the United States needs stronger efforts to coordinate 
with allies and partners to guard against these emerging threats.
17. Congress develop legislation to provide for cooperation 
on and mutual recognition of unfair trade practices.
▶ The procedures could provide for a voluntary, expedited 
mechanism to support coordinated application of trade remedies 
against unfair trade practices, including but not limited to 
antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders.
▶ Under this procedure, the United States and partner 
countries could recognize that an AD/CVD finding is a finding 
of an unfair foreign trade practice. The United States could then 
request a third-party country take action within its own market 
to ensure a coordinated response to the unfair trade practice, 
and partner countries could request similar action by the 
United States.
The United States and its allies and partners have multiple 
procedures to protect their domestic markets from unfair trade 
practices. Nonetheless, these procedures are lacking when the exports 
of domestic firms are harmed by unfair trade practices in third 
countries. That is, existing authorities enable the U.S. government 
to protect U.S. manufacturers from products dumped in their home 
market, but not when those same products are dumped in a third 
country’s market. The concept of addressing unfair trade practices 
in third-country markets, alongside home markets, is recognized in 
international trade law but, in general, has been unutilized, harming 
U.S. firms and the firms of U.S. allies and partners.† 
18. To address the harmful consequences of the Second China 
Shock—the massive outpouring of subsidized, underpriced Chinese 
manufactured goods now flooding the world economy and 
threatening to undermine the prospects for industrialization and 
future prosperity of developing countries while denying potential 
markets to U.S. exporters—Congress should:
† Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, April 15, 1994, Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, Annex 1A, art. 
14, 1868 U.N.T.S. 201; Third-Country Dumping, 19 U.S.C. § 1677k (1994); Regulations Amending the Special Import Measures Regulations, SOR/2023-26, Canada Gazette, Part II, 157, no. 5 (March 1, 
20231):396.
<<<PAGE 53>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
53
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of State, in conjunction with 
other agencies, to prepare a report detailing the impact 
of China’s recent export surge on the developing world, 
proposing U.S. and allied policies to counteract its negative 
effects as part of a larger strategy for blunting the growth of 
China’s global influence, and identifying ways in which the 
U.S. government may employ existing statutory authorities 
to work with foreign countries to respond collectively to the 
Second China Shock; and
▶ Direct the Departments of State, the Treasury, and Commerce 
and the U.S. Trade Representative to establish an international 
forum to coordinate a multilateral response to the Shock, 
taking into consideration issues of reciprocal market access and 
ensuring fair treatment for U.S. exporters in third countries.
Chapter 9: Chained to China: Beijing’s 
Weaponization of Supply Chains
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 19. Congress build U.S. pharmaceutical supply chain resilience 
by increasing visibility into the supply chain, as well as tracking 
and reducing U.S. direct and indirect dependence on Chinese 
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and related key starting 
materials (KSMs), through legislation that:
▶ Amends section 3112(e) of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and 
Economic Security (CARES) Act to expand the authority of 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require drug 
manufacturers to report volume and ultimate origin of APIs 
and KSMs used in drugs consumed in the United States, 
including sourcing of Chinese content through third countries. 
Based on this information, the FDA should: 
▶ Produce a confidential report analyzing U.S. 
vulnerabilities to Chinese APIs and KSMs. The report 
should identify the proportion of U.S. drug consumption 
that is dependent on foreign APIs and KSMs, determine 
vulnerabilities, and track trends over time, including 
anonymized aggregates of increases 
or decreases in U.S. dependency on China.
▶ Directs the FDA to identify regulatory authorities 
and deficiencies to support or incentivize the use of APIs and 
KSMs from sources with no China origin. 
▶ Directs the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS) to explore the use of procurement and reimbursement 
authorities to protect the U.S. and allies’ API and KSM 
markets, which could include price floor commitments in 
support of U.S. industry to protect investments against 
nonmarket practices and price manipulation.
20. To support the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Supply 
Chain Center in addressing the lack of sufficiently fine-grained, 
real-time data on U.S. dependence on China for materials and 
intermediate goods, the relevant committees of Congress should 
hold hearings on the activities of the Center, the adequacy of 
its funding, and the ways in which its work might be improved 
through the incorporation of data and techniques being 
developed in the private sector. The Supply Chain Center should 
then be required to provide an annual report identifying a set 
of goods and materials deemed critical to national defense 
and/or the functioning of the civilian economy, detailing trends 
in U.S. dependence on China for those goods and materials, 
and reporting on the status of policies and programs intended 
to limit that dependence.
21. Congress expand and modernize applicable lending, 
investing, and grantmaking authorities for the U.S. International 
Development Finance Corporation, Export-Import Bank of the 
United States (EXIM), and other strategic financing vehicles 
established by the U.S. government to ensure these financing 
entities are adequately positioned to utilize significant portions 
of their funding to prioritize critical U.S. needs in geostrategically 
relevant sectors (“strategic projects”), including:
▶ Supply chains for critical and emerging technologies 
and related enabling inputs (e.g., critical minerals, critical 
minerals processing, semiconductors, artificial intelligence, 
biotechnology, quantum information sciences, digital 
technology, etc.);
▶ In sectors where reliance on supply chains based 
in China poses serious economic or national security risk 
to the United States, as determined by the President, 
in consultation with Congress; and 
▶ In countries of geostrategic importance to U.S.- 
China competition as determined by the President, 
in consultation with Congress, for projects relevant 
to such competition.
Congress should also ensure that current limits applicable 
to each of these entities, including EXIM’s 2 percent default 
cap, content requirements, and limits on types of recipients, 
do not unduly constrain U.S. entities from funding or advancing 
strategic projects.
<<<PAGE 54>>>
USCC 2025 REPORT TO CONGRESS
54
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Chapter 10: Power Surge: 
China’s Electrification Drive and 
Push for Global Energy Dominance
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 22. To protect the U.S. power grid from the economic and 
cybersecurity threats posed by Chinese-made components, 
Congress should:
▶ Prohibit the import of energy storage systems with remote 
monitoring capabilities that are manufactured by or made 
with technology licensed from Chinese entities.
▶ Allocate additional funds to the U.S. Department of Energy 
for grid expansion, modernization, and cybersecurity grant 
and loan programs and prohibit the use of those grants and 
loans to purchase goods or services or license technology 
from entities that pose a cybersecurity risk to the U.S. 
power grid to be designated by the Secretary of Energy, 
in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, Secretary 
of Homeland Security, the Director of the National Security 
Agency, and the heads of other federal departments and 
agencies, as the Secretary determines appropriate.
▶ Direct the Department of Energy and Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission to strengthen supply chain risk 
management requirements for interstate electric 
transmission utilities by: 
▶ Requiring utilities to identify all Chinese-origin 
components within their high- and medium-impact 
bulk electric system and protected cyber assets; 
▶ Developing requirements to prohibit the installation of or 
mitigate the cybersecurity risk posed by those components; 
▶ Requiring that future procurement of such cyber assets 
come with full software, firmware, and hardware bills 
of materials; 
▶ Mandating that interstate transmission utilities report 
on their use of Chinese-origin components to their 
distribution utility customers; and 
▶ Coordinating with the U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security and other relevant agencies to provide technical 
assistance to implement these requirements.
23. To support the adoption of nationwide cybersecurity 
standards and tools to protect the U.S. power grid from Chinese 
state-backed cyber actors, Congress should:
▶ Require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), 
in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, the North 
American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Electricity 
Subsector Coordinating Council, and the National Association 
of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, to conduct a study and 
report on transmission and distribution utilities’ adoption 
of minimum cybersecurity standards established pursuant 
to National Security Memorandum 22 or existing mandatory 
FERC requirements.
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Energy to further authorize and 
fund projects at the National Laboratories to produce digital 
twins (virtual replicas of physical systems) for the power grid, 
leverage artificial intelligence to detect and patch vulnerabilities 
across the grid, and incorporate digital twins and artificial 
intelligence into cybersecurity simulations and exercises.
▶ Require the National Laboratories, U.S. Department of Justice, 
and Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue a joint report and 
briefing to Congress on known cybersecurity threats within 
the United States related to energy critical infrastructure. 
Chapter 11: Taiwan 
The Commission recommends: 
 ▲ 24. Congress direct the U.S. Department of Defense, in coordination 
with the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM), to produce 
a report in both classified and unclassified form assessing its 
compliance with the legal requirement established by Congress in 
the Taiwan Relations Act “to maintain the capacity of the United 
States to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion that 
would jeopardize the security, or the social or economic system, 
of the people on Taiwan.” The report should include:
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to respond to a 
Taiwan contingency; 
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to respond to other forms of 
coercion being used by China to threaten the security of Taiwan 
(e.g., China’s gray zone tactics in and around Taiwan); and
▶ An assessment of U.S. capacity to comply with the Taiwan 
Relations Act in scenarios where the United States is also 
engaged in responding to aggression by Russia, Iran, or 
North Korea in other regions. 
In each case, the report should identify any gaps that currently 
exist or will exist based on likely trajectories of resources 
and capabilities.
25. Congress direct the U.S. Department of State to work with 
Taiwan to open a Foreign Military Sales (FMS) case for non-
weaponry support services to advance regional U.S. posture 
initiatives that would enhance the U.S. deterrence capacity 
around Taiwan. 
▶ The case should specifically bolster existing U.S. initiatives, 
such as the U.S.-Philippines Enhanced Defense Cooperation 
Arrangements (EDCA) on the Luzon and Palawan Islands 
<<<PAGE 55>>>
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
55
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
as well as efforts in the southwestern Japanese island chain 
and on the Pacific Islands that recognize Taiwan. 
▶ Under this program, Taiwan would fund projects in third 
countries, ultimately benefiting its own security. 
26. Congress pass legislation affirming strong, bipartisan 
support for the Vatican-Taiwan diplomatic relationship. 
The legislation should: 
▶ Recognize that the Vatican is one of Taiwan’s most 
significant diplomatic partners, providing essential 
international legitimacy and support to the people of Taiwan; 
▶ Express opposition to Chinese government pressure 
on the Holy See to sever ties with Taipei;
▶ Endorse the establishment of a trilateral mechanism with 
Taiwan and the Vatican to advance religious freedom and 
human rights globally; and
▶ Encourage Members of Congress to underscore U.S. 
support for the Vatican-Taiwan diplomatic relationship 
in all engagements with Vatican officials.
Chapter 12: Hong Kong
The Commission recommends: 
27. Given Hong Kong has become a central global hub for 
sanctions evasion that supports Russia, Iran, and North Korea, 
Congress pass legislation to:
▶ Condition Hong Kong’s continued status as an official 
offshore U.S. dollar (USD) clearing center on compliance 
with U.S. sanctions, including by providing U.S. authorities 
full visibility into transactions conducted through Hong 
Kong’s USD Clearing House Automated Transfer System 
(USD CHATS); 
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of the Treasury to assess the 
extent to which transactions in Hong Kong via USD CHATS 
are facilitating evasion of sanctions or export controls and 
determine the feasibility of replacing it with the Clearing 
House Interbank Payments System (CHIPS); 
▶ Authorize secondary sanctions for the facilitation 
of sanctions and export control violations by Chinese 
and Hong Kong financial institutions, including codifying 
authorities established by executive order to impose 
secondary sanctions on Chinese and Hong Kong financial 
institutions facilitating evasion on behalf of Russian, 
Iranian, and North Korean entities; 
▶ Direct the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of 
Industry and Security (BIS) to require heightened due 
diligence for sales of any Common High Priority List (CHPL) 
items to China or Hong Kong, given China’s role as primary 
provider of such items to Russia;
▶ Provide additional resources, technology, and staff to 
BIS and the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets 
Control (OFAC) for enforcement of export controls and 
sanctions related to Hong Kong; and 
▶ Create a new standing cross-agency enforcement task force 
with respect to sanctions and export control evasion through 
Hong Kong, including enforcement personnel relating to 
money laundering, financial sanctions, and export controls, 
to enhance overall enforcement efforts to shut down illicit 
evasion networks running through Hong Kong.
28. Congress codify Executive Order 13936 on Hong Kong 
Normalization that was issued on July 14, 2020, along with the 
Secretary of State’s 2020 certification as required under the 
United States-Hong Kong Policy Act, to ensure the continued 
implementation of U.S. policy in response to Beijing’s dismantling 
of Hong Kong’s autonomy and the erosion of fundamental 
freedoms. The Executive Order determined that the Special 
Administrative Region of Hong Kong is no longer sufficiently 
autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the 
People’s Republic of China under U.S. law. The legislation should 
include the following provisions:
▶ Permanently authorize all provisions of the Executive Order, 
including sanctions on individuals and entities responsible 
for undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy;
▶ Suspend Hong Kong’s special trade preferences; and 
▶ Continue reporting requirements on the status of human 
rights and rule of law in Hong Kong. 
Codification would protect these measures from potential 
reversal by future administrations without congressional input, 
send a strong bipartisan signal of support for the people of Hong 
Kong, and reinforce U.S. commitment to upholding international 
obligations under the Sino-British Joint Declaration. 
<<<PAGE 56>>>
2025 Report to Congress
of the
U.S.-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission
 
Executive Summary and Recommendations